AUDITD-PLUGINS(5)                                                                     System Administration Utilities                                                                    AUDITD-PLUGINS(5)

NAME
       auditd-plugins - realtime event receivers

DESCRIPTION
       auditd  can  multiplex  audit events in realtime. It takes audit events and distributes them to child programs that want to analyze events in realtime. When the audit daemon receives a SIGTERM or
       SIGHUP, it passes that signal to its child processes so that can reload the configuration or terminate.

       The child programs install a configuration file in a plugins directory which defaults to /etc/audit/plugins.d. This can be controlled by a auditd.conf config option plugin_dir if the admin wished
       to locate plugins somewhere else. But auditd will install its plugins in the default location.

       The  plugin  directory  will  be scanned and every plugin that is active will be started. If the plugin has a problem and exits, it will be started a maximum of max_restarts times as found in au‐
       ditd.conf.

       Config file names are not allowed to have more than one '.' in the name or it will be treated as a backup copy and skipped. Config file options are given one per line with an equal  sign  between
       the keyword and its value. The available options are as follows:

       active The options for this are yes or no.

       direction
              The  option  is dictated by the plugin.  In or out are the only choices. You cannot make a plugin operate in a way it wasn't designed just by changing this option. This option is to give a
              clue to the event dispatcher about which direction events flow. NOTE: inbound events are not supported yet.

       path   This is the absolute path to the plugin executable. In the case of internal plugins, it would be the name of the plugin.

       type   This tells the dispatcher how the plugin wants to be run. Choices are builtin and always.  Builtin should always be given for plugins that are internal to the audit event dispatcher. These
              are af_unix and syslog. The option always should be given for most if not all plugins. The default setting is always.

       args   This allows you to pass arguments to the child program. Generally plugins do not take arguments and have their own config file that instructs them how they should be configured. At the mo‐
              ment, there is a limit of 2 args.

       format The valid options for this are binary and string.  Binary passes the data exactly as the audit event dispatcher gets it from the audit daemon. The string option  tells  the  dispatcher  to
              completely change the event into a string suitable for parsing with the audit parsing library. The default value is string.

NOTE
       auditd  has  an  internal queue to hold events for plugins. (See the q_depth setting in auditd.conf.) Plugins have to watch for and dequeue events as fast as possible and queue them internally if
       they can't be immediately processed. If the plugin is not able to dequeue records, the auditd internal queue will get filled. At any time, as root, you can run the  following  to  check  auditd's
       metrics:

       auditctl --signal cont ; sleep 1 ; cat /var/run/auditd.state

       If  auditd's internal queue fills, it cannot dequeue any events from the kernel backlog. If the kernel's backlog fills, it looks at the value of backlog_wait_time to delay all processes that gen‐
       erate an event to see if there is eventually room to add the event. This will likely be noticed as slowing down various processes on the machine. The kernel's audit subsystem can  be  checked  by
       running:

       auditctl -s

       When tuning the audit system's performance, you'd want to check both kernel and auditd metrics and adjust accordingly.

FILES
       /etc/auditd/auditd.conf /etc/audit/plugins.d

SEE ALSO
       auditd.conf(5), auditd(8).

AUTHOR
       Steve Grubb

Red Hat                                                                                          Aug 2022                                                                                AUDITD-PLUGINS(5)
