base(3perl)                                                                          Perl Programmers Reference Guide                                                                          base(3perl)

NAME
       base - Establish an ISA relationship with base classes at compile time

SYNOPSIS
           package Baz;
           use base qw(Foo Bar);

DESCRIPTION
       Unless you are using the "fields" pragma, consider this module discouraged in favor of the lighter-weight "parent".

       Allows you to both load one or more modules, while setting up inheritance from those modules at the same time.  Roughly similar in effect to

           package Baz;
           BEGIN {
               require Foo;
               require Bar;
               push @ISA, qw(Foo Bar);
           }

       When "base" tries to "require" a module, it will not die if it cannot find the module's file, but will die on any other error.  After all this, should your base class be empty, containing no
       symbols, "base" will die. This is useful for inheriting from classes in the same file as yourself but where the filename does not match the base module name, like so:

               # in Bar.pm
               package Foo;
               sub exclaim { "I can have such a thing?!" }

               package Bar;
               use base "Foo";

       There is no Foo.pm, but because "Foo" defines a symbol (the "exclaim" subroutine), "base" will not die when the "require" fails to load Foo.pm.

       "base" will also initialize the fields if one of the base classes has it.  Multiple inheritance of fields is NOT supported, if two or more base classes each have inheritable fields the 'base'
       pragma will croak. See fields for a description of this feature.

       The base class' "import" method is not called.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Base class package "%s" is empty.
           base.pm was unable to require the base package, because it was not found in your path.

       Class 'Foo' tried to inherit from itself
           Attempting to inherit from yourself generates a warning.

               package Foo;
               use base 'Foo';

HISTORY
       This module was introduced with Perl 5.004_04.

CAVEATS
       Due to the limitations of the implementation, you must use base before you declare any of your own fields.

SEE ALSO
       fields

perl v5.36.0                                                                                    2022-12-12                                                                                     base(3perl)
