CHGRP(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                      CHGRP(1)

NAME
       chgrp - change group ownership

SYNOPSIS
       chgrp [OPTION]... GROUP FILE...
       chgrp [OPTION]... --reference=RFILE FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       Change the group of each FILE to GROUP.  With --reference, change the group of each FILE to that of RFILE.

       -c, --changes
              like verbose but report only when a change is made

       -f, --silent, --quiet
              suppress most error messages

       -v, --verbose
              output a diagnostic for every file processed

       --dereference
              affect the referent of each symbolic link (this is the default), rather than the symbolic link itself

       -h, --no-dereference
              affect symbolic links instead of any referenced file (useful only on systems that can change the ownership of a symlink)

       --no-preserve-root
              do not treat '/' specially (the default)

       --preserve-root
              fail to operate recursively on '/'

       --reference=RFILE
              use RFILE's group rather than specifying a GROUP.  RFILE is always dereferenced if a symbolic link.

       -R, --recursive
              operate on files and directories recursively

       The following options modify how a hierarchy is traversed when the -R option is also specified.  If more than one is specified, only the final one takes effect.

       -H     if a command line argument is a symbolic link to a directory, traverse it

       -L     traverse every symbolic link to a directory encountered

       -P     do not traverse any symbolic links (default)

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit

EXAMPLES
       chgrp staff /u
              Change the group of /u to "staff".

       chgrp -hR staff /u
              Change the group of /u and subfiles to "staff".

AUTHOR
       Written by David MacKenzie and Jim Meyering.

REPORTING BUGS
       GNU coreutils online help: <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/>
       Report any translation bugs to <https://translationproject.org/team/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       chown(1), chown(2)

       Full documentation <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/chgrp>
       or available locally via: info '(coreutils) chgrp invocation'

GNU coreutils 9.2                                                                               April 2023                                                                                        CHGRP(1)
CHGRP(1P)                                                                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                               CHGRP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       chgrp — change the file group ownership

SYNOPSIS
       chgrp [-h] group file...

       chgrp -R [-H|-L|-P] group file...

DESCRIPTION
       The chgrp utility shall set the group ID of the file named by each file operand to the group ID specified by the group operand.

       For each file operand, or, if the -R option is used, each file encountered while walking the directory trees specified by the file operands, the chgrp utility shall perform actions equivalent  to
       the chown() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, called with the following arguments:

        *  The file operand shall be used as the path argument.

        *  The user ID of the file shall be used as the owner argument.

        *  The specified group ID shall be used as the group argument.

       Unless  chgrp  is  invoked  by a process with appropriate privileges, the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of a regular file shall be cleared upon successful completion; the set-user-ID and set-
       group-ID bits of other file types may be cleared.

OPTIONS
       The chgrp utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       -h        For each file operand that names a file of type symbolic link, chgrp shall attempt to set the group ID of the symbolic link instead of the file referenced by the symbolic link.

       -H        If the -R option is specified and a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is specified on the command line, chgrp shall change the group of the directory referenced by  the
                 symbolic link and all files in the file hierarchy below it.

       -L        If  the  -R  option is specified and a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is specified on the command line or encountered during the traversal of a file hierarchy, chgrp
                 shall change the group of the directory referenced by the symbolic link and all files in the file hierarchy below it.

       -P        If the -R option is specified and a symbolic link is specified on the command line or encountered during the traversal of a file hierarchy, chgrp shall change the group ID of  the  sym‐
                 bolic link. The chgrp utility shall not follow the symbolic link to any other part of the file hierarchy.

       -R        Recursively change file group IDs. For each file operand that names a directory, chgrp shall change the group of the directory and all files in the file hierarchy below it. Unless a -H,
                 -L, or -P option is specified, it is unspecified which of these options will be used as the default.

       Specifying more than one of the mutually-exclusive options -H, -L, and -P shall not be considered an error. The last option specified shall determine the behavior of the utility.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       group     A group name from the group database or a numeric group ID. Either specifies a group ID to be given to each file named by one of the file operands. If a numeric group operand exists  in
                 the group database as a group name, the group ID number associated with that group name is used as the group ID.

       file      A pathname of a file whose group ID is to be modified.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of chgrp:

       LANG      Provide  a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The utility executed successfully and all requested changes were made.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Only the owner of a file or the user with appropriate privileges may change the owner or group of a file.

       Some implementations restrict the use of chgrp to a user with appropriate privileges when the group specified is not the effective group ID or one of the supplementary group IDs  of  the  calling
       process.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The System V and BSD versions use different exit status codes. Some implementations used the exit status as a count of the number of errors that occurred; this practice is unworkable since it can
       overflow the range of valid exit status values. The standard developers chose to mask these by specifying only 0 and >0 as exit values.

       The functionality of chgrp is described substantially through references to chown().  In this way, there is no duplication of effort required for describing the interactions of permissions,  mul‐
       tiple groups, and so on.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod, chown

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, chown()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                          CHGRP(1P)
