COMM(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                       COMM(1)

NAME
       comm - compare two sorted files line by line

SYNOPSIS
       comm [OPTION]... FILE1 FILE2

DESCRIPTION
       Compare sorted files FILE1 and FILE2 line by line.

       When FILE1 or FILE2 (not both) is -, read standard input.

       With no options, produce three-column output.  Column one contains lines unique to FILE1, column two contains lines unique to FILE2, and column three contains lines common to both files.

       -1     suppress column 1 (lines unique to FILE1)

       -2     suppress column 2 (lines unique to FILE2)

       -3     suppress column 3 (lines that appear in both files)

       --check-order
              check that the input is correctly sorted, even if all input lines are pairable

       --nocheck-order
              do not check that the input is correctly sorted

       --output-delimiter=STR
              separate columns with STR

       --total
              output a summary

       -z, --zero-terminated
              line delimiter is NUL, not newline

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit

       Note, comparisons honor the rules specified by 'LC_COLLATE'.

EXAMPLES
       comm -12 file1 file2
              Print only lines present in both file1 and file2.

       comm -3 file1 file2
              Print lines in file1 not in file2, and vice versa.

AUTHOR
       Written by Richard M. Stallman and David MacKenzie.

REPORTING BUGS
       GNU coreutils online help: <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/>
       Report any translation bugs to <https://translationproject.org/team/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       join(1), uniq(1)

       Full documentation <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/comm>
       or available locally via: info '(coreutils) comm invocation'

GNU coreutils 9.2                                                                               April 2023                                                                                         COMM(1)
COMM(1P)                                                                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                                COMM(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       comm — select or reject lines common to two files

SYNOPSIS
       comm [-123] file1 file2

DESCRIPTION
       The comm utility shall read file1 and file2, which should be ordered in the current collating sequence, and produce three text columns as output: lines only in file1, lines  only  in  file2,  and
       lines in both files.

       If the lines in both files are not ordered according to the collating sequence of the current locale, the results are unspecified.

       If  the  collating  sequence of the current locale does not have a total ordering of all characters (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 7.3.2, LC_COLLATE) and any lines from
       the input files collate equally but are not identical, comm should treat them as different lines but may treat them as being the same. If it treats them as different, comm should expect  them  to
       be  ordered according to a further byte-by-byte comparison using the collating sequence for the POSIX locale and if they are not ordered in this way, the output of comm can identify such lines as
       being both unique to file1 and unique to file2 instead of being in both files.

OPTIONS
       The comm utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -1        Suppress the output column of lines unique to file1.

       -2        Suppress the output column of lines unique to file2.

       -3        Suppress the output column of lines duplicated in file1 and file2.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file1     A pathname of the first file to be compared. If file1 is '-', the standard input shall be used.

       file2     A pathname of the second file to be compared. If file2 is '-', the standard input shall be used.

       If both file1 and file2 refer to standard input or to the same FIFO special, block special, or character special file, the results are undefined.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used only if one of the file1 or file2 operands refers to standard input. See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of comm:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine the locale for the collating sequence comm expects to have been used when the input files were sorted.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The comm utility shall produce output depending on the options selected. If the -1, -2, and -3 options are all selected, comm shall write nothing to standard output.

       If the -1 option is not selected, lines contained only in file1 shall be written using the format:

           "%s\n", <line in file1>

       If the -2 option is not selected, lines contained only in file2 are written using the format:

           "%s%s\n", <lead>, <line in file2>

       where the string <lead> is as follows:

       <tab>     The -1 option is not selected.

       null string
                 The -1 option is selected.

       If the -3 option is not selected, lines contained in both files shall be written using the format:

           "%s%s\n", <lead>, <line in both>

       where the string <lead> is as follows:

       <tab><tab>
                 Neither the -1 nor the -2 option is selected.

       <tab>     Exactly one of the -1 and -2 options is selected.

       null string
                 Both the -1 and -2 options are selected.

       If the input files were ordered according to the collating sequence of the current locale, the lines written shall be in the collating sequence of the current locale. If the input files contained
       any lines that collated equally but were not identical and within each file those lines were ordered according to a further byte-by-byte comparison using the collating sequence for the POSIX  lo‐
       cale,  and comm treated them as different lines, then lines written that collate equally but are not identical should be ordered according to a further byte-by-byte comparison using the collating
       sequence for the POSIX locale.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All input files were successfully output as specified.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If the input files are not properly presorted, the output of comm might not be useful.

       When using comm to process pathnames, it is recommended that LC_ALL, or at least LC_CTYPE and LC_COLLATE, are set to POSIX or C in the environment, since pathnames can contain byte sequences that
       do  not  form valid characters in some locales, in which case the utility's behavior would be undefined. In the POSIX locale each byte is a valid single-byte character, and therefore this problem
       is avoided.

       If the collating sequence of the current locale does not have a total ordering of all characters, this can affect the behavior of comm in the following ways:

        *  If comm treats lines as being the same only if they are identical, some lines can be misleadingly identified as being both unique to file1 and unique to file2.

        *  If comm treats lines as being the same if they collate equally and a line from file1 collates equally with a line from file2 but is not identical to it, one of the lines is misleadingly iden‐
           tified as being in both files and the other is not written to the output at all.

       Such problems can be avoided by forcing the use of the POSIX locale; for example, the following identifies lines in both file1 and file2:

           LC_ALL=POSIX sort file1 > file1.posix
           LC_ALL=POSIX sort file2 > file2.posix
           LC_ALL=POSIX comm -12 file1.posix file2.posix | sort

       The  final sort re-sorts the output of comm according to the collating sequence of the original locale. Doing this might be difficult if more than one column is output and leading <blank>s cannot
       be ignored.

EXAMPLES
       If a file named xcu contains a sorted list of the utilities in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017, a file named xpg3 contains a sorted list of the utilities specified in the  X/Open  Portability  Guide,
       Issue 3, and a file named svid89 contains a sorted list of the utilities in the System V Interface Definition Third Edition:

           comm -23 xcu xpg3 | comm -23 - svid89

       would print a list of utilities in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 not specified by either of the other documents:

           comm -12 xcu xpg3 | comm -12 - svid89

       would print a list of utilities specified by all three documents, and:

           comm -12 xpg3 svid89 | comm -23 - xcu

       would print a list of utilities specified by both XPG3 and the SVID, but not specified in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       A future version of this standard may require that if any lines from the input files collate equally but are not identical, then comm treats them as different lines and expects them to be ordered
       according to a further byte-by-byte comparison using the collating sequence for the POSIX locale.

       A future version of this standard may require that if the input files contained any lines that collated equally but were not identical and within each file those lines were ordered according to a
       further  byte-by-byte  comparison  using the collating sequence for the POSIX locale, then lines written that collate equally but are not identical are ordered according to a further byte-by-byte
       comparison using the collating sequence for the POSIX locale.

SEE ALSO
       cmp, diff, sort, uniq

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 7.3.2, LC_COLLATE, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base  Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this ver‐
       sion and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online  at  http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report such errors, see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                           COMM(1P)
