DPMSSetTimeouts(3)                                                                              X FUNCTIONS                                                                             DPMSSetTimeouts(3)

NAME
       DPMSSetTimeouts - permits applications to set the timeout values used by the X server for DPMS timings

SYNOPSIS
       cc [ flag ... ] file ... -lXext [ library ... ]
       #include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>

       Status DPMSSetTimeouts
              (
                    Display *display,
                    CARD16 standby,
                    CARD16 suspend,
                    CARD16 off
              );

ARGUMENTS
       display
              Specifies the connection to the X server

       standby
              Specifies the new standby timeout in seconds

       suspend
              Specifies the new suspend timeout in seconds

       off    Specifies the new off timeout in seconds

DESCRIPTION
       The DPMSSetTimeouts function permits applications to set the timeout values used by the X server for Display Power Management Signaling (DPMS) timings.

       The  value standby is the amount of inactivity time, in seconds, before standby mode is invoked. The actual effects of this mode are dependent on the characteristics of the monitor and frame buf‐
       fer card. Standby mode is implemented by shutting off the horizontal sync signal, and pulsing the vertical sync signal. Standby mode provides the quickest monitor recovery time.  Note  also  that
       many monitors implement this mode identical to suspend mode.  A value of zero disables the standby mode.

       The  value  suspend is the amount of time of inactivity, in seconds, before the second level of power savings is invoked. Suspend mode's physical and electrical characteristics are implementation
       defined. For DPMS compliant hardware, setting the suspend mode is implemented by pulsing the horizontal sync signal and shutting off the vertical sync signal.  In general, suspend  mode  recovery
       is  considered  to  be slower than standby mode, but faster than off mode. However it may vary from monitor to monitor.  As noted above, many monitors implement this mode identical to the standby
       mode.  A value of zero disables this mode.

       The value off is the amount of time of inactivity, in seconds, before the third and final level of power savings is invoked. Off mode's physical and electrical characteristics are  implementation
       defined.  In  DPMS compliant hardware, it is implemented by shutting off both horizontal and vertical sync signals, resulting in powering down of the monitor.  Recovery time is implementation de‐
       pendent.  Usually the recovery time is very close to the power-up time of the monitor. A value of zero disables this mode.

       Chronologically, standby mode occurs before or simultaneously with suspend mode, and suspend mode must occur before or simultaneously with off mode.  Therefore, non-zero mode timeout values  must
       be greater than or equal to the timeout values of earlier modes.  If inconsistent values are supplied, a BadValue error will result.

RETURN VALUES
       TRUE           The DPMSSetTimeouts function returns TRUE when the function has succeeded.

ERRORS
       BadValue       An argument is out of range.

SEE ALSO
       DPMSCapable(3), DPMSInfo(3), DPMSGetTimeouts(3)

X Version 11                                                                                   libXext 1.3.5                                                                            DPMSSetTimeouts(3)
