FLATPAK UPDATE(1)                                                                             flatpak update                                                                             FLATPAK UPDATE(1)

NAME
       flatpak-update - Update an application or runtime

SYNOPSIS
       flatpak update [OPTION...] [REF...]

       flatpak update [OPTION...] --appstream [REMOTE]

DESCRIPTION
       Updates applications and runtimes.  REF is a reference to the application or runtime to update. If no REF is given, everything is updated, as well as appstream info for all remotes.

       Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements except ID are optional and can be left out, including
       the slashes, so most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be matched against what is installed, and if there are multiple matches an error message will list the
       alternatives.

       By default this looks for both apps and runtimes with the given REF, but you can limit this by using the --app or --runtime option, or by supplying the initial element in the REF.

       Normally, this command updates the application to the tip of its branch. But it is possible to check out another commit, with the --commit option.

       If the configured remote for a ref being updated has a collection ID configured on it, Flatpak will search the sideload-repos directories configured either with the --sideload-repo option, or on
       a per-installation or system-wide basis (see flatpak(1)).

       Note that updating a runtime is different from installing a different branch, and runtime updates are expected to keep strict compatibility. If an application update does cause a problem, it is
       possible to go back to the previous version, with the --commit option.

       In addition to updates, this command will offer to uninstall any unused end-of-life runtimes. Runtimes that were explicitly installed (not as a dependency) or explicitly pinned (see flatpak-
       pin(1)) are left installed even if unused and end-of-life.

       Unless overridden with the --user, --system or --installation option, this command updates any matching refs in the standard system-wide installation and the per-user one.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -h, --help
           Show help options and exit.

       -u, --user
           Update a per-user installation.

       --system
           Update the default system-wide installation.

       --installation=NAME
           Updates a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using --installation=default is equivalent to using --system.

       --arch=ARCH
           The architecture to update for. See flatpak --supported-arches for architectures supported by the host.

       --subpath=PATH
           Install only a subpath of the ref. This is mainly used to install a subset of locales. This can be added multiple times to install multiple subpaths. If this is not specified the subpaths
           specified at install time are reused.

       --commit=COMMIT
           Update to this commit, instead of the tip of the branch. You can find commits using flatpak remote-info --log REMOTE REF.

       --no-deploy
           Download the latest version, but don't deploy it.

       --no-pull
           Don't download the latest version, deploy whatever is locally available.

       --no-related
           Don't download related extensions, such as the locale data.

       --no-deps
           Don't update or install runtime dependencies when installing.

       --app
           Only look for an app with the given name.

       --appstream
           Update appstream for REMOTE, or all remotes if no remote is specified.

       --runtime
           Only look for a runtime with the given name.

       --sideload-repo=PATH
           Adds an extra local ostree repo as a source for installation. This is equivalent to using the sideload-repos directories (see flatpak(1)), but can be done on a per-command basis. Any path
           added here is used in addition to ones in those directories.

       -y, --assumeyes
           Automatically answer yes to all questions (or pick the most prioritized answer). This is useful for automation.

       --noninteractive
           Produce minimal output and avoid most questions. This is suitable for use in non-interactive situations, e.g. in a build script.

       --force-remove
           Remove old files even if they're in use by a running application.

       -v, --verbose
           Print debug information during command processing.

       --ostree-verbose
           Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

EXAMPLES
       $ flatpak --user update org.gnome.gedit

SEE ALSO
       flatpak(1), flatpak-install(1), flatpak-list(1), ostree-find-remotes(1)

flatpak                                                                                                                                                                                  FLATPAK UPDATE(1)
