FLATPAK CONFIG(1)                                                                             flatpak config                                                                             FLATPAK CONFIG(1)

NAME
       flatpak-config - Manage configuration

SYNOPSIS
       flatpak config [OPTION...]

       flatpak config [OPTION...] --set KEY VALUE

       flatpak config [OPTION...] --unset|--get KEY

DESCRIPTION
       The flatpak config command shows or modifies the configuration of a flatpak installation. The following keys are supported:

       languages
           The languages that are included when installing Locale extensions. The value is a semicolon-separated list of two-letter language codes, or one of the special values * or all. If this key is
           unset, flatpak defaults to including the extra-languages key and the current locale.

       extra-languages
           This key is used when languages is not set, and it defines extra locale extensions on top of the system configured languages. The value is a semicolon-separated list of locale identifiers
           (language, optional locale, optional codeset, optional modifier) as documented by setlocale(3) (for example, en;en_DK;zh_HK.big5hkscs;uz_UZ.utf8@cyrillic).

       For configuration of individual remotes, see flatpak-remote-modify(1). For configuration of individual applications, see flatpak-override(1).

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -h, --help
           Show help options and exit.

       --list
           Print all keys and their values.

       --set
           Set key KEY to VALUE.

       --unset
           Unset key KEY.

       --get
           Print value of KEY.

       -u, --user
           Configure per-user installation.

       --system
           Configure system-wide installation.

       --installation=NAME
           Configure the system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using --installation=default is equivalent to using --system.

       -v, --verbose
           Print debug information during command processing.

       --ostree-verbose
           Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

EXAMPLES
       $ flatpak config --set languages "sv;en;fi"

SEE ALSO
       flatpak(1), flatpak-remote-modify(1), flatpak-override(1)

flatpak                                                                                                                                                                                  FLATPAK CONFIG(1)
