FLATPAK CREATE-USB(1)                                                                       flatpak create-usb                                                                       FLATPAK CREATE-USB(1)

NAME
       flatpak-create-usb - Copy apps and/or runtimes onto removable media.

SYNOPSIS
       flatpak create-usb [OPTION...] MOUNT-PATH REF...

DESCRIPTION
       Copies the specified apps and/or runtimes REFs onto the removable media mounted at MOUNT-PATH, along with all the dependencies and metadata needed for installing them. This is one way of
       transferring flatpaks between computers that doesn't require an Internet connection. After using this command, the USB drive can be connected to another computer which already has the relevant
       remote(s) configured, and Flatpak will install or update from the drive offline (see below). If online, the drive will be used as a cache, meaning some objects will be pulled from it and others
       from the Internet. For this process to work a collection ID must be configured on the relevant remotes on both the source and destination computers, and on the remote server.

       On the destination computer one can install from the USB (or any mounted filesystem) using the --sideload-repo option with flatpak install. It's also possible to configure sideload paths using
       symlinks; see flatpak(1). Flatpak also includes systemd units to automatically sideload from hot-plugged USB drives, but these may or may not be enabled depending on your Linux distribution.

       Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements except ID are optional and can be left out, including
       the slashes, so most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be matched against what is installed, and if there are multiple matches an error message will list the
       alternatives.

       By default this looks for both installed apps and runtimes with the given REF, but you can limit this by using the --app or --runtime option.

       All REFs must be in the same installation (user, system, or other). Otherwise it's ambiguous which repository metadata refs to put on the USB drive.

       By default flatpak create-usb uses .ostree/repo as the destination directory under MOUNT-PATH but if you specify another location using --destination-repo a symbolic link will be created for you
       in .ostree/repos.d. This ensures that either way the repository will be found by flatpak (and other consumers of libostree) for install/update operations.

       Unless overridden with the --system, --user, or --installation options, this command searches both the system-wide installation and the per-user one for REF and errors out if it exists in more
       than one.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -h, --help
           Show help options and exit.

       -u, --user
           Copy refs from the per-user installation.

       --system
           Copy refs from the default system-wide installation.

       --installation=NAME
           Copy refs from a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using --installation=default is equivalent to using --system.

       --app
           Assume that all REFs are apps if not explicitly specified.

       --runtime
           Assume that all REFs are runtimes if not explicitly specified.

       --destination-repo=DEST
           Create the repository in DEST under MOUNT-PATH, rather than the default location.

       --allow-partial
           Don't print a warning when exporting partially installed commits, for example locale extensions without all languages. These can cause problems when installing them, for example if the
           language config is different on the installing side.

       -v, --verbose
           Print debug information during command processing.

       --ostree-verbose
           Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

EXAMPLES
       $ flatpak create-usb /run/media/mwleeds/1a9b4cb2-a7ef-4d9b-91a5-6eaf8fdd2bf6/ com.endlessm.wiki_art.en

SEE ALSO
       flatpak(1), flatpak remote-modify(1), flatpak-install(1), flatpak-list(1), ostree-create-usb(1)

flatpak                                                                                                                                                                              FLATPAK CREATE-USB(1)
