FUSER(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                      FUSER(1)

NAME
       fuser - identify processes using files or sockets

SYNOPSIS
       fuser [-fuv] [-a|-s] [-4|-6] [-c|-m|-n space] [ -k [-i] [-M] [-w] [-SIGNAL] ] name ...
       fuser -l
       fuser -V

DESCRIPTION
       fuser displays the PIDs of processes using the specified files or file systems.  In the default display mode, each file name is followed by a letter denoting the type of access:

              c      current directory.
              e      executable being run.
              f      open file.  f is omitted in default display mode.
              F      open file for writing.  F is omitted in default display mode.
              r      root directory.
              m      mmap'ed file or shared library.
              .      Placeholder, omitted in default display mode.

       fuser returns a non-zero return code if none of the specified files is accessed or in case of a fatal error.  If at least one access has been found, fuser returns zero.

       In  order  to look up processes using TCP and UDP sockets, the corresponding name space has to be selected with the -n option. By default fuser will look in both IPv6 and IPv4 sockets.  To change
       the default behavior, use the -4 and -6 options.  The socket(s) can be specified by the local and remote port, and the remote address.  All fields are optional, but commas  in  front  of  missing
       fields must be present:

       [lcl_port][,[rmt_host][,[rmt_port]]]

       Either symbolic or numeric values can be used for IP addresses and port numbers.

       fuser outputs only the PIDs to stdout, everything else is sent to stderr.

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              Show all files specified on the command line.  By default, only files that are accessed by at least one process are shown.

       -c     Same as -m option, used for POSIX compatibility.

       -f     Silently ignored, used for POSIX compatibility.

       -k, --kill
              Kill  processes  accessing  the file.  Unless changed with -SIGNAL, SIGKILL is sent.  An fuser process never kills itself, but may kill other fuser processes.  The effective user ID of the
              process executing fuser is set to its real user ID before attempting to kill.

       -i, --interactive
              Ask the user for confirmation before killing a process.  This option is silently ignored if -k is not present too.

       -I, --inode
              For the name space file let all comparisons be based on the inodes of the specified file(s) and never on the file names even on network based file systems.

       -l, --list-signals
              List all known signal names.

       -m NAME, --mount NAME
              NAME specifies a file on a mounted file system or a block device that is mounted.  All processes accessing files on that file system are listed.  If a directory is specified, it  is  auto‐
              matically changed to NAME/ to use any file system that might be mounted on that directory.

       -M, --ismountpoint
              Request will be fulfilled only if NAME specifies a mountpoint.  This is an invaluable seat belt which prevents you from killing the machine if NAME happens to not be a filesystem.

       -w     Kill only processes which have write access.  This option is silently ignored if -k is not present too.

       -n NAMESPACE, --namespace NAMESPACE
              Select  a  different  name space.  The name spaces file (file names, the default), udp (local UDP ports), and tcp (local TCP ports) are supported.  For ports, either the port number or the
              symbolic name can be specified.  If there is no ambiguity, the shortcut notation name/space (e.g., 80/tcp) can be used.

       -s, --silent
              Silent operation.  -u and -v are ignored in this mode.  -a must not be used with -s.

       -SIGNAL
              Use the specified signal instead of SIGKILL when killing processes.  Signals can be specified either by name (e.g., -HUP) or by number (e.g., -1).  This option is silently ignored  if  the
              -k option is not used.

       -u, --user
              Append the user name of the process owner to each PID.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose  mode.   Processes  are shown in a ps-like style.  The fields PID, USER and COMMAND are similar to ps.  ACCESS shows how the process accesses the file.  Verbose mode will also show
              when a particular file is being accessed as a mount point, knfs export or swap file.  In this case kernel is shown instead of the PID.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -4, --ipv4
              Search only for IPv4 sockets.  This option must not be used with the -6 option and only has an effect with the tcp and udp namespaces.

       -6, --ipv6
              Search only for IPv6 sockets.  This option must not be used with the -4 option and only has an effect with the tcp and udp namespaces.

FILES
       /proc  location of the proc file system

EXAMPLES
       fuser -km /home
              kills all processes accessing the file system /home in any way.

       if fuser -s /dev/ttyS1; then :; else command; fi
              invokes command if no other process is using /dev/ttyS1.

       fuser telnet/tcp
              shows all processes at the (local) TELNET port.

RESTRICTIONS
       Processes accessing the same file or file system several times in the same way are only shown once.

       If the same object is specified several times on the command line, some of those entries may be ignored.

       fuser may only be able to gather partial information unless run with privileges.  As a consequence, files opened by processes belonging to other users may not be listed  and  executables  may  be
       classified as mapped only.

       fuser  cannot  report  on  any processes that it doesn't have permission to look at the file descriptor table for.  The most common time this problem occurs is when looking for TCP or UDP sockets
       when running fuser as a non-root user.  In this case fuser will report no access.

       Installing fuser SUID root will avoid problems associated with partial information, but may be undesirable for security and privacy reasons.

       udp and tcp name spaces, and UNIX domain sockets can't be searched with kernels older than 1.3.78.

       Accesses by the kernel are only shown with the -v option.

       The -k option only works on processes.  If the user is the kernel, fuser will print an advice, but take no action beyond that.

       fuser will not see block devices mounted by processes in a different mount namespace.  This is due to the device ID shown in the process' file descriptor table being from the  process  namespace,
       not fuser's; meaning it won't match.

BUGS
       fuser -m /dev/sgX will show (or kill with the -k flag) all processes, even if you don't have that device configured.  There may be other devices it does this for too.

       The mount -m option will match any file within the same device as the specified file, use the -M option as well if you mean to specify only the mount point.

SEE ALSO
       kill(1), killall(1), lsof(8), mount_namespaces(7), pkill(1), ps(1), kill(2).

psmisc                                                                                          2022-11-02                                                                                        FUSER(1)
FUSER(1P)                                                                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                               FUSER(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fuser — list process IDs of all processes that have one or more files open

SYNOPSIS
       fuser [-cfu] file...

DESCRIPTION
       The fuser utility shall write to standard output the process IDs of processes running on the local system that have one or more named files open.  For block special devices, all  processes  using
       any file on that device are listed.

       The fuser utility shall write to standard error additional information about the named files indicating how the file is being used.

       Any output for processes running on remote systems that have a named file open is unspecified.

       A user may need appropriate privileges to invoke the fuser utility.

OPTIONS
       The fuser utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -c        The file is treated as a mount point and the utility shall report on any files open in the file system.

       -f        The report shall be only for the named files.

       -u        The user name, in parentheses, associated with each process ID written to standard output shall be written to standard error.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname on which the file or file system is to be reported.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The user database.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of fuser:

       LANG      Provide  a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The fuser utility shall write the process ID for each process using each file given as an operand to standard output in the following format:

           "%d", <process_id>

STDERR
       The fuser utility shall write diagnostic messages to standard error.

       The fuser utility also shall write the following to standard error:

        *  The pathname of each named file is written followed immediately by a <colon>.

        *  For each process ID written to standard output, the character 'c' shall be written to standard error if the process is using the file as its current directory and the character 'r'  shall  be
           written to standard error if the process is using the file as its root directory. Implementations may write other alphabetic characters to indicate other uses of files.

        *  When the -u option is specified, characters indicating the use of the file shall be followed immediately by the user name, in parentheses, corresponding to the real user ID of the process. If
           the user name cannot be resolved from the real user ID of the process, the real user ID of the process shall be written instead of the user name.

       When standard output and standard error are directed to the same file, the output shall be interleaved so that the filename appears at the start of each line, followed by the process ID and char‐
       acters indicating the use of the file. Then, if the -u option is specified, the user name or user ID for each process using that file shall be written.

       A <newline> shall be written to standard error after the last output described above for each file operand.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       The command:

           fuser -fu .

       writes  to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using the current directory and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the directory and the user
       names associated with the processes that are using the current directory.

           fuser -c <mount point>

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using any file in the file system which is mounted on <mount point> and writes to standard error an indication of  how  those  pro‐
       cesses are using the files.

           fuser <mount point>

       writes  to  standard  output  the  process IDs of processes that are using the file which is named by <mount point> and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the
       file.

           fuser <block device>

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using any file which is on the device named by <block device> and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are
       using the file.

           fuser -f <block device>

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using the file <block device> itself and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the file.

RATIONALE
       The definition of the fuser utility follows existing practice.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                          FUSER(1P)
