utimensat(2)                                                                                System Calls Manual                                                                               utimensat(2)

NAME
       utimensat, futimens - change file timestamps with nanosecond precision

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fcntl.h>            /* Definition of AT_* constants */
       #include <sys/stat.h>

       int utimensat(int dirfd, const char *pathname,
                     const struct timespec times[_Nullable 2], int flags);
       int futimens(int fd, const struct timespec times[_Nullable 2]);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       utimensat():
           Since glibc 2.10:
               _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
           Before glibc 2.10:
               _ATFILE_SOURCE

       futimens():
           Since glibc 2.10:
               _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
           Before glibc 2.10:
               _GNU_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       utimensat()  and  futimens() update the timestamps of a file with nanosecond precision.  This contrasts with the historical utime(2) and utimes(2), which permit only second and microsecond preci‐
       sion, respectively, when setting file timestamps.

       With utimensat() the file is specified via the pathname given in pathname.  With futimens() the file whose timestamps are to be updated is specified via an open file descriptor, fd.

       For both calls, the new file timestamps are specified in the array times: times[0] specifies the new "last access time" (atime); times[1] specifies the new "last modification time" (mtime).  Each
       of the elements of times specifies a time as the number of seconds and nanoseconds since the Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).  This information is conveyed in a timespec(3) structure.

       Updated file timestamps are set to the greatest value supported by the filesystem that is not greater than the specified time.

       If the tv_nsec field of one of the timespec structures has the special value UTIME_NOW, then the corresponding file timestamp is set to the current time.  If the tv_nsec field of one of the time‐
       spec structures has the special value UTIME_OMIT, then the corresponding file timestamp is left unchanged.  In both of these cases, the value of the corresponding tv_sec field is ignored.

       If times is NULL, then both timestamps are set to the current time.

       The status change time (ctime) will be set to the current time, even if the other time stamps don't actually change.

   Permissions requirements
       To set both file timestamps to the current time (i.e., times is NULL, or both tv_nsec fields specify UTIME_NOW), either:

       •  the caller must have write access to the file;

       •  the caller's effective user ID must match the owner of the file; or

       •  the caller must have appropriate privileges.

       To make any change other than setting both timestamps to the current time (i.e., times is not NULL, and neither tv_nsec field is UTIME_NOW and neither tv_nsec field is UTIME_OMIT), either  condi‐
       tion 2 or 3 above must apply.

       If  both  tv_nsec  fields are specified as UTIME_OMIT, then no file ownership or permission checks are performed, and the file timestamps are not modified, but other error conditions may still be
       detected.

   utimensat() specifics
       If pathname is relative, then by default it is interpreted relative to the directory referred to by the open file descriptor, dirfd (rather than relative to the current working directory  of  the
       calling process, as is done by utimes(2) for a relative pathname).  See openat(2) for an explanation of why this can be useful.

       If pathname is relative and dirfd is the special value AT_FDCWD, then pathname is interpreted relative to the current working directory of the calling process (like utimes(2)).

       If pathname is absolute, then dirfd is ignored.

       The flags field is a bit mask that may be 0, or include the following constant, defined in <fcntl.h>:

       AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW
              If pathname specifies a symbolic link, then update the timestamps of the link, rather than the file to which it refers.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, utimensat() and futimens() return 0.  On error, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EACCES times  is  NULL,  or both tv_nsec values are UTIME_NOW, and the effective user ID of the caller does not match the owner of the file, the caller does not have write access to the file, and
              the caller is not privileged (Linux: does not have either the CAP_FOWNER or the CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE capability).

       EBADF  (futimens()) fd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EBADF  (utimensat()) pathname is relative but dirfd is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid file descriptor.

       EFAULT times pointed to an invalid address; or, dirfd was AT_FDCWD, and pathname is NULL or an invalid address.

       EINVAL Invalid value in flags.

       EINVAL Invalid value in one of the tv_nsec fields (value outside range [0, 999,999,999], and not UTIME_NOW or UTIME_OMIT); or an invalid value in one of the tv_sec fields.

       EINVAL pathname is NULL, dirfd is not AT_FDCWD, and flags contains AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW.

       ELOOP  (utimensat()) Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving pathname.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              (utimensat()) pathname is too long.

       ENOENT (utimensat()) A component of pathname does not refer to an existing directory or file, or pathname is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              (utimensat()) pathname is a relative pathname, but dirfd is neither AT_FDCWD nor a file descriptor referring to a directory; or, one of the prefix components of pathname is  not  a  direc‐
              tory.

       EPERM  The  caller  attempted to change one or both timestamps to a value other than the current time, or to change one of the timestamps to the current time while leaving the other timestamp un‐
              changed, (i.e., times is not NULL, neither tv_nsec field is UTIME_NOW, and neither tv_nsec field is UTIME_OMIT) and either:

              •  the caller's effective user ID does not match the owner of file, and the caller is not privileged (Linux: does not have the CAP_FOWNER capability); or,

              •  the file is marked append-only or immutable (see chattr(1)).

       EROFS  The file is on a read-only filesystem.

       ESRCH  (utimensat()) Search permission is denied for one of the prefix components of pathname.

ATTRIBUTES
       For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see attributes(7).

       ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┐
       │Interface                                                                                                                                                               │ Attribute     │ Value   │
       ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┤
       │utimensat(), futimens()                                                                                                                                                 │ Thread safety │ MT-Safe │
       └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┘

VERSIONS
   C library/kernel ABI differences
       On Linux, futimens() is a library function implemented on top of the utimensat() system call.  To support this, the Linux utimensat() system call implements a nonstandard feature: if pathname  is
       NULL, then the call modifies the timestamps of the file referred to by the file descriptor dirfd (which may refer to any type of file).  Using this feature, the call futimens(fd, times) is imple‐
       mented as:

           utimensat(fd, NULL, times, 0);

       Note, however, that the glibc wrapper for utimensat() disallows passing NULL as the value for pathname: the wrapper function returns the error EINVAL in this case.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

VERSIONS
       utimensat()
              Linux 2.6.22, glibc 2.6.  POSIX.1-2008.

       futimens()
              glibc 2.6.  POSIX.1-2008.

NOTES
       utimensat() obsoletes futimesat(2).

       On Linux, timestamps cannot be changed for a file marked immutable, and the only change permitted for files marked append-only is to set the timestamps to the current time.  (This  is  consistent
       with the historical behavior of utime(2) and utimes(2) on Linux.)

       If both tv_nsec fields are specified as UTIME_OMIT, then the Linux implementation of utimensat() succeeds even if the file referred to by dirfd and pathname does not exist.

BUGS
       Several bugs afflict utimensat() and futimens() before Linux 2.6.26.  These bugs are either nonconformances with the POSIX.1 draft specification or inconsistencies with historical Linux behavior.

       •  POSIX.1 specifies that if one of the tv_nsec fields has the value UTIME_NOW or UTIME_OMIT, then the value of the corresponding tv_sec field should be ignored.  Instead, the value of the tv_sec
          field is required to be 0 (or the error EINVAL results).

       •  Various bugs mean that for the purposes of permission checking, the case where both tv_nsec fields are set to UTIME_NOW isn't always treated the same as specifying times as NULL, and the  case
          where  one  tv_nsec value is UTIME_NOW and the other is UTIME_OMIT isn't treated the same as specifying times as a pointer to an array of structures containing arbitrary time values.  As a re‐
          sult, in some cases: a) file timestamps can be updated by a process that shouldn't have permission to perform updates; b) file timestamps can't be updated by a process that should have permis‐
          sion to perform updates; and c) the wrong errno value is returned in case of an error.

       •  POSIX.1  says  that a process that has write access to the file can make a call with times as NULL, or with times pointing to an array of structures in which both tv_nsec fields are UTIME_NOW,
          in order to update both timestamps to the current time.  However, futimens() instead checks whether the access mode of the file descriptor allows writing.

SEE ALSO
       chattr(1), touch(1), futimesat(2), openat(2), stat(2), utimes(2), futimes(3), timespec(3), inode(7), path_resolution(7), symlink(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2023-03-30                                                                                    utimensat(2)
FUTIMENS(3P)                                                                             POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                            FUTIMENS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       futimens, utimensat, utimes — set file access and modification times

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/stat.h>

       int futimens(int fd, const struct timespec times[2]);

       #include <fcntl.h>

       int utimensat(int fd, const char *path, const struct timespec times[2],
           int flag);

       #include <sys/time.h>

       int utimes(const char *path, const struct timeval times[2]);

DESCRIPTION
       The futimens() and utimensat() functions shall set the access and modification times of a file to the values of the times argument. The futimens() function changes the times of the  file  associ‐
       ated  with the file descriptor fd.  The utimensat() function changes the times of the file pointed to by the path argument, relative to the directory associated with the file descriptor fd.  Both
       functions allow time specifications accurate to the nanosecond.

       For futimens() and utimensat(), the times argument is an array of two timespec structures. The first array member represents the date and time of last access, and the second member represents the
       date  and  time of last modification. The times in the timespec structure are measured in seconds and nanoseconds since the Epoch. The file's relevant timestamp shall be set to the greatest value
       supported by the file system that is not greater than the specified time.

       If the tv_nsec field of a timespec structure has the special value UTIME_NOW, the file's relevant timestamp shall be set to the greatest value supported by the file system  that  is  not  greater
       than the current time. If the tv_nsec field has the special value UTIME_OMIT, the file's relevant timestamp shall not be changed. In either case, the tv_sec field shall be ignored.

       If  the times argument is a null pointer, both the access and modification timestamps shall be set to the greatest value supported by the file system that is not greater than the current time. If
       utimensat() is passed a relative path in the path argument, the file to be used shall be relative to the directory associated with the file descriptor fd instead of the current working directory.
       If  the  access  mode of the open file description associated with the file descriptor is not O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current permis‐
       sions of the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the access mode is O_SEARCH, the function shall not perform the check.

       If utimensat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working directory shall be used.

       Only a process with the effective user ID equal to the user ID of the file, or with write access to the file, or with appropriate privileges may use futimens() or utimensat() with a null  pointer
       as the times argument or with both tv_nsec fields set to the special value UTIME_NOW. Only a process with the effective user ID equal to the user ID of the file or with appropriate privileges may
       use futimens() or utimensat() with a non-null times argument that does not have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_NOW and does not have both tv_nsec fields  set  to  UTIME_OMIT.  If  both  tv_nsec
       fields  are  set  to UTIME_OMIT, no ownership or permissions check shall be performed for the file, but other error conditions may still be detected (including [EACCES] errors related to the path
       prefix).

       Values for the flag argument of utimensat() are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list, defined in <fcntl.h>:

       AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW
             If path names a symbolic link, then the access and modification times of the symbolic link are changed.

       Upon successful completion, futimens() and utimensat() shall mark the last file status change timestamp for update, with the exception that if both tv_nsec fields are set to UTIME_OMIT, the  file
       status change timestamp need not be marked for update.

       The  utimes()  function  shall  be equivalent to the utimensat() function with the special value AT_FDCWD as the fd argument and the flag argument set to zero, except that the times argument is a
       timeval structure rather than a timespec structure, and accuracy is only to the microsecond, not nanosecond, and rounding towards the nearest second may occur.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise, these functions shall return -1 and set errno to indicate the error. If -1 is returned, the file times  shall  not  be  af‐
       fected.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES The times argument is a null pointer, or both tv_nsec values are UTIME_NOW, and the effective user ID of the process does not match the owner of the file and write access is denied.

       EINVAL Either of the times argument structures specified a tv_nsec value that was neither UTIME_NOW nor UTIME_OMIT, and was a value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.

       EINVAL A new file timestamp would be a value whose tv_sec component is not a value supported by the file system.

       EPERM  The  times  argument  is not a null pointer, does not have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_NOW, does not have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_OMIT, the calling process' effective user ID
              does not match the owner of the file, and the calling process does not have appropriate privileges.

       EROFS  The file system containing the file is read-only.

       The futimens() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fd argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       The utimensat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES The access mode of the open file description associated with fd is not O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit directory searches.

       EBADF  The path argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The path argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with a non-directory file.

       The utimensat() and utimes() functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied by a component of the path prefix.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash>  character  and
              ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       The utimensat() and utimes() functions may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The utimensat() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the flag argument is not valid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  purpose  of the utimensat() function is to set the access and modification time of files in directories other than the current working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part
       of the path of a file could be changed in parallel to a call to utimes(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a file descriptor for the target directory and using the utimensat()  func‐
       tion it can be guaranteed that the changed file is located relative to the desired directory.

       The  standard  developers considered including a special case for the permissions required by utimensat() when one tv_nsec field is UTIME_NOW and the other is UTIME_OMIT. One possibility would be
       to include this case in with the cases where times is a null pointer or both fields are UTIME_NOW, where the call is allowed if the process has write permission for the file. However, associating
       write permission with an update to just the last data access timestamp (which is normally updated by read()) did not seem appropriate. The other possibility would be to specify that this one case
       is allowed if the process has read permission, but this was felt to be too great a departure from the utime() and utimes() functions on which utimensat() is based. If an application needs to  set
       the  last  data access timestamp to the current time for a file on which it has read permission but is not the owner, it can do so by opening the file, reading one or more bytes (or reading a di‐
       rectory entry, if the file is a directory), and then closing it.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       read(), utime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fcntl.h>, <sys_stat.h>, <sys_time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base  Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this ver‐
       sion and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online  at  http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report such errors, see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                       FUTIMENS(3P)
