GETGID(3P)                                                                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                              GETGID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getgid — get the real group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       gid_t getgid(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The getgid() function shall return the real group ID of the calling process.  The getgid() function shall not modify errno.

RETURN VALUE
       The getgid() function shall always be successful and no return value is reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       In a conforming environment, getgid() will always succeed. It is possible for implementations to provide an extension where a process in a non-conforming environment will not be associated with a
       user  or  group ID.  It is recommended that such implementations return (gid_t)-1 and set errno to indicate such an environment; doing so does not violate this standard, since such an environment
       is already an extension.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getegid(), geteuid(), getuid(), setegid(), seteuid(), setgid(), setregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base  Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this ver‐
       sion and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online  at  http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report such errors, see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                         GETGID(3P)
getgid(2)                                                                                   System Calls Manual                                                                                  getgid(2)

NAME
       getgid, getegid - get group identity

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       gid_t getgid(void);
       gid_t getegid(void);

DESCRIPTION
       getgid() returns the real group ID of the calling process.

       getegid() returns the effective group ID of the calling process.

ERRORS
       These functions are always successful and never modify errno.

VERSIONS
       On  Alpha, instead of a pair of getgid() and getegid() system calls, a single getxgid() system call is provided, which returns a pair of real and effective GIDs.  The glibc getgid() and getegid()
       wrapper functions transparently deal with this.  See syscall(2) for details regarding register mapping.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.

       The original Linux getgid() and getegid() system calls supported only 16-bit group IDs.  Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added getgid32() and getegid32(), supporting 32-bit IDs.  The glibc  getgid()  and
       getegid() wrapper functions transparently deal with the variations across kernel versions.

SEE ALSO
       getresgid(2), setgid(2), setregid(2), credentials(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2023-03-30                                                                                       getgid(2)
