GETPMSG(3P)                                                                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                             GETPMSG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getpmsg — receive next message from a STREAMS file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stropts.h>

       int getpmsg(int fildes, struct strbuf *restrict ctlptr,
           struct strbuf *restrict dataptr, int *restrict bandp,
           int *restrict flagsp);

DESCRIPTION
       Refer to getmsg().

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base  Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this ver‐
       sion and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online  at  http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report such errors, see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                        GETPMSG(3P)
UNIMPLEMENTED(2)                                                                            System Calls Manual                                                                           UNIMPLEMENTED(2)

NAME
       afs_syscall,  break, fattach, fdetach, ftime, getmsg, getpmsg, gtty, isastream, lock, madvise1, mpx, prof, profil, putmsg, putpmsg, security, stty, tuxcall, ulimit, vserver - unimplemented system
       calls

SYNOPSIS
       Unimplemented system calls.

DESCRIPTION
       These system calls are not implemented in the Linux kernel.

RETURN VALUE
       These system calls always return -1 and set errno to ENOSYS.

NOTES
       Note that ftime(3), profil(3), and ulimit(3) are implemented as library functions.

       Some system calls, like alloc_hugepages(2), free_hugepages(2), ioperm(2), iopl(2), and vm86(2) exist only on certain architectures.

       Some system calls, like ipc(2), create_module(2), init_module(2), and delete_module(2) exist only when the Linux kernel was built with support for them.

SEE ALSO
       syscalls(2)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2022-10-09                                                                                UNIMPLEMENTED(2)
