GETSOCKNAME(3P)                                                                          POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                         GETSOCKNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getsockname — get the socket name

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockname(int socket, struct sockaddr *restrict address,
           socklen_t *restrict address_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The getsockname() function shall retrieve the locally-bound name of the specified socket, store this address in the sockaddr structure pointed to by the address argument, and store the length  of
       this address in the object pointed to by the address_len argument.

       The address_len argument points to a socklen_t object which on input specifies the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, and on output specifies the length of the stored address.  If the ac‐
       tual length of the address is greater than the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, the stored address shall be truncated.

       If the socket has not been bound to a local name, the value stored in the object pointed to by address is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned, the address argument shall point to the address of the socket, and the address_len argument shall point to the length of the  address.  Otherwise,
       -1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The getsockname() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The operation is not supported for this socket's protocol.

       The getsockname() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The socket has been shut down.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete the function.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       accept(), bind(), getpeername(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                    GETSOCKNAME(3P)
getsockname(2)                                                                              System Calls Manual                                                                             getsockname(2)

NAME
       getsockname - get socket name

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockname(int sockfd, struct sockaddr *restrict addr,
                       socklen_t *restrict addrlen);

DESCRIPTION
       getsockname()  returns  the  current address to which the socket sockfd is bound, in the buffer pointed to by addr.  The addrlen argument should be initialized to indicate the amount of space (in
       bytes) pointed to by addr.  On return it contains the actual size of the socket address.

       The returned address is truncated if the buffer provided is too small; in this case, addrlen will return a value greater than was supplied to the call.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EBADF  The argument sockfd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EFAULT The addr argument points to memory not in a valid part of the process address space.

       EINVAL addrlen is invalid (e.g., is negative).

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOTSOCK
              The file descriptor sockfd does not refer to a socket.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, SVr4, 4.4BSD (first appeared in 4.2BSD).

SEE ALSO
       bind(2), socket(2), getifaddrs(3), ip(7), socket(7), unix(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2023-04-03                                                                                  getsockname(2)
