HOSTNAME(5)                                                                                      hostname                                                                                      HOSTNAME(5)

NAME
       hostname - Local hostname configuration file

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/hostname

DESCRIPTION
       The /etc/hostname file configures the name of the local system. Unless overridden as described in the next section, systemd(1) will set this hostname during boot using the sethostname(2) system
       call.

       The file should contain a single newline-terminated hostname string. Comments (lines starting with a "#") are ignored. The hostname should be composed of up to 64 7-bit ASCII lower-case
       alphanumeric characters or hyphens forming a valid DNS domain name. It is recommended that this name contains only a single label, i.e. without any dots. Invalid characters will be filtered out
       in an attempt to make the name valid, but obviously it is recommended to use a valid name and not rely on this filtering.

       You may use hostnamectl(1) to change the value of this file during runtime from the command line. Use systemd-firstboot(1) to initialize it on mounted (but not booted) system images.

HOSTNAME SEMANTICS
       systemd(1) and the associated tools will obtain the hostname in the following ways:

       •   If the kernel commandline parameter systemd.hostname= specifies a valid hostname, systemd(1) will use it to set the hostname during early boot, see kernel-command-line(7),

       •   Otherwise, the "static" hostname specified by /etc/hostname as described above will be used.

       •   Otherwise, a transient hostname may be set during runtime, for example based on information in a DHCP lease, see systemd-hostnamed.service(8). Both NetworkManager[1] and systemd-
           networkd.service(8) allow this. Note that systemd-hostnamed.service(8) gives higher priority to the static hostname, so the transient hostname will only be used if the static hostname is not
           configured.

       •   Otherwise, a fallback hostname configured at compilation time will be used ("archlinux").

       Effectively, the static hostname has higher priority than a transient hostname, which has higher priority than the fallback hostname. Transient hostnames are equivalent, so setting a new
       transient hostname causes the previous transient hostname to be forgotten. The hostname specified on the kernel command line is like a transient hostname, with the exception that it has higher
       priority when the machine boots. Also note that those are the semantics implemented by systemd tools, but other programs may also set the hostname.

HISTORY
       The simple configuration file format of /etc/hostname originates from Debian GNU/Linux.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), sethostname(2), hostname(1), hostname(7), machine-id(5), machine-info(5), hostnamectl(1), systemd-hostnamed.service(8), systemd-firstboot(1)

NOTES
        1. NetworkManager
           https://developer.gnome.org/NetworkManager/stable/

systemd 253                                                                                                                                                                                    HOSTNAME(5)
hostname(7)                                                                          Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                          hostname(7)

NAME
       hostname - hostname resolution description

DESCRIPTION
       Hostnames are domains, where a domain is a hierarchical, dot-separated list of subdomains; for example, the machine "monet", in the "example" subdomain of the "com" domain would be represented as
       "monet.example.com".

       Each element of the hostname must be from 1 to 63 characters long and the entire hostname, including the dots, can be at most 253 characters long.  Valid characters  for  hostnames  are  ASCII(7)
       letters from a to z, the digits from 0 to 9, and the hyphen (-).  A hostname may not start with a hyphen.

       Hostnames are often used with network client and server programs, which must generally translate the name to an address for use.  (This task is generally performed by either getaddrinfo(3) or the
       obsolete gethostbyname(3).)

       Hostnames are resolved by the NSS framework in glibc according to the hosts configuration in nsswitch.conf.  The DNS-based name resolver (in the dns NSS service module) resolves them in the  fol‐
       lowing fashion.

       If  the  name consists of a single component, that is, contains no dot, and if the environment variable HOSTALIASES is set to the name of a file, that file is searched for any string matching the
       input hostname.  The file should consist of lines made up of two white-space separated strings, the first of which is the hostname alias, and the second of which is the complete  hostname  to  be
       substituted  for that alias.  If a case-insensitive match is found between the hostname to be resolved and the first field of a line in the file, the substituted name is looked up with no further
       processing.

       If the input name ends with a trailing dot, the trailing dot is removed, and the remaining name is looked up with no further processing.

       If the input name does not end with a trailing dot, it is looked up by searching through a list of domains until a match is found.  The default search list includes first the local  domain,  then
       its  parent  domains with at least 2 name components (longest first).  For example, in the domain cs.example.com, the name lithium.cchem will be checked first as lithium.cchem.cs.example and then
       as lithium.cchem.example.com.  lithium.cchem.com will not be tried, as there is only one component remaining from the local domain.  The search path can be changed from the default by  a  system-
       wide configuration file (see resolver(5)).

SEE ALSO
       getaddrinfo(3), gethostbyname(3), nsswitch.conf(5), resolver(5), mailaddr(7), named(8)

       IETF RFC 1123 ⟨http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1123.txt⟩

       IETF RFC 1178 ⟨http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1178.txt⟩

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2022-10-30                                                                                     hostname(7)
