IPCRM(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                      IPCRM(1)

NAME
       ipcrm - remove certain IPC resources

SYNOPSIS
       ipcrm [options]

       ipcrm [shm|msg|sem] ID ...

DESCRIPTION
       ipcrm removes System V inter-process communication (IPC) objects and associated data structures from the system. In order to delete such objects, you must be superuser, or the creator or owner of
       the object.

       System V IPC objects are of three types: shared memory, message queues, and semaphores. Deletion of a message queue or semaphore object is immediate (regardless of whether any process still holds
       an IPC identifier for the object). A shared memory object is only removed after all currently attached processes have detached (shmdt(2)) the object from their virtual address space.

       Two syntax styles are supported. The old Linux historical syntax specifies a three-letter keyword indicating which class of object is to be deleted, followed by one or more IPC identifiers for
       objects of this type.

       The SUS-compliant syntax allows the specification of zero or more objects of all three types in a single command line, with objects specified either by key or by identifier (see below). Both keys
       and identifiers may be specified in decimal, hexadecimal (specified with an initial '0x' or '0X'), or octal (specified with an initial '0').

       The details of the removes are described in shmctl(2), msgctl(2), and semctl(2). The identifiers and keys can be found by using ipcs(1).

OPTIONS
       -a, --all [shm] [msg] [sem]
           Remove all resources. When an option argument is provided, the removal is performed only for the specified resource types.

           Warning! Do not use -a if you are unsure how the software using the resources might react to missing objects. Some programs create these resources at startup and may not have any code to deal
           with an unexpected disappearance.

       -M, --shmem-key shmkey
           Remove the shared memory segment created with shmkey after the last detach is performed.

       -m, --shmem-id shmid
           Remove the shared memory segment identified by shmid after the last detach is performed.

       -Q, --queue-key msgkey
           Remove the message queue created with msgkey.

       -q, --queue-id msgid
           Remove the message queue identified by msgid.

       -S, --semaphore-key semkey
           Remove the semaphore created with semkey.

       -s, --semaphore-id semid
           Remove the semaphore identified by semid.

       -h, --help
           Display help text and exit.

       -V, --version
           Print version and exit.

NOTES
       In its first Linux implementation, ipcrm used the deprecated syntax shown in the second line of the SYNOPSIS. Functionality present in other *nix implementations of ipcrm has since been added,
       namely the ability to delete resources by key (not just identifier), and to respect the same command-line syntax. For backward compatibility the previous syntax is still supported.

SEE ALSO
       ipcmk(1), ipcs(1), msgctl(2), msgget(2), semctl(2), semget(2), shmctl(2), shmdt(2), shmget(2), ftok(3), sysvipc(7)

REPORTING BUGS
       For bug reports, use the issue tracker at https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues.

AVAILABILITY
       The ipcrm command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded from Linux Kernel Archive <https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.

util-linux 2.38.1                                                                               2022-05-11                                                                                        IPCRM(1)
IPCRM(1P)                                                                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                               IPCRM(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ipcrm — remove an XSI message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory segment identifier

SYNOPSIS
       ipcrm [-q msgid|-Q msgkey|-s semid|-S semkey|-m shmid|-M shmkey]...

DESCRIPTION
       The ipcrm utility shall remove zero or more message queues, semaphore sets, or shared memory segments. The interprocess communication facilities to be removed are specified by the options.

       Only a user with appropriate privileges shall be allowed to remove an interprocess communication facility that was not created by or owned by the user invoking ipcrm.

OPTIONS
       The ipcrm utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -q msgid  Remove the message queue identifier msgid from the system and destroy the message queue and data structure associated with it.

       -m shmid  Remove the shared memory identifier shmid from the system. The shared memory segment and data structure associated with it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       -s semid  Remove the semaphore identifier semid from the system and destroy the set of semaphores and data structure associated with it.

       -Q msgkey Remove the message queue identifier, created with key msgkey, from the system and destroy the message queue and data structure associated with it.

       -M shmkey Remove the shared memory identifier, created with key shmkey, from the system. The shared memory segment and data structure associated with it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       -S semkey Remove the semaphore identifier, created with key semkey, from the system and destroy the set of semaphores and data structure associated with it.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of ipcrm:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ipcs

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, msgctl(), semctl(), shmctl()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                          IPCRM(1P)
