localedef(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                             localedef(1)

NAME
       localedef - compile locale definition files

SYNOPSIS
       localedef [options] outputpath

       localedef --add-to-archive [options] compiledpath

       localedef --delete-from-archive [options] localename ...

       localedef --list-archive [options]

       localedef --help

       localedef --usage

       localedef --version

DESCRIPTION
       The  localedef program reads the indicated charmap and input files, compiles them to a binary form quickly usable by the locale functions in the C library (setlocale(3), localeconv(3), etc.), and
       places the output in outputpath.

       The outputpath argument is interpreted as follows:

       •  If outputpath contains a slash character ('/'), it is interpreted as the name of the directory where the output definitions are to be stored.  In this case, there is a separate output file for
          each locale category (LC_TIME, LC_NUMERIC, and so on).

       •  If the --no-archive option is used, outputpath is the name of a subdirectory in /usr/lib/locale where per-category compiled files are placed.

       •  Otherwise, outputpath is the name of a locale and the compiled locale data is added to the archive file /usr/lib/locale/locale-archive.  A locale archive is a memory-mapped file which contains
          all the system-provided locales; it is used by all localized programs when the environment variable LOCPATH is not set.

       In any case, localedef aborts if the directory in which it tries to write locale files has not already been created.

       If no charmapfile is given, the value ANSI_X3.4-1968 (for ASCII) is used by default.  If no inputfile is given, or if it is given as a dash (-), localedef reads from standard input.

OPTIONS
   Operation-selection options
       A few options direct localedef to do something other than compile locale definitions.  Only one of these options should be used at a time.

       --add-to-archive
              Add the compiledpath directories to the locale archive file.  The directories should have been created by previous runs of localedef, using --no-archive.

       --delete-from-archive
              Delete the named locales from the locale archive file.

       --list-archive
              List the locales contained in the locale archive file.

   Other options
       Some of the following options are sensible only for certain operations; generally, it should be self-evident which ones.  Notice that -f and -c are reversed from what you might expect;  that  is,
       -f is not the same as --force.

       -f charmapfile, --charmap=charmapfile
              Specify  the file that defines the character set that is used by the input file.  If charmapfile contains a slash character ('/'), it is interpreted as the name of the character map.  Oth‐
              erwise, the file is sought in the current directory and the default directory for character maps.  If the environment variable I18NPATH is set, $I18NPATH/charmaps/ and $I18NPATH/ are  also
              searched after the current directory.  The default directory for character maps is printed by localedef --help.

       -i inputfile, --inputfile=inputfile
              Specify  the locale definition file to compile.  The file is sought in the current directory and the default directory for locale definition files.  If the environment variable I18NPATH is
              set, $I18NPATH/locales/ and $I18NPATH are also searched after the current directory.  The default directory for locale definition files is printed by localedef --help.

       -u repertoirefile, --repertoire-map=repertoirefile
              Read mappings from symbolic names to Unicode code points from repertoirefile.  If repertoirefile contains a slash character ('/'), it is interpreted as the pathname of the repertoire  map.
              Otherwise,  the file is sought in the current directory and the default directory for repertoire maps.  If the environment variable I18NPATH is set, $I18NPATH/repertoiremaps/ and $I18NPATH
              are also searched after the current directory.  The default directory for repertoire maps is printed by localedef --help.

       -A aliasfile, --alias-file=aliasfile
              Use aliasfile to look up aliases for locale names.  There is no default aliases file.

       -c, --force
              Write the output files even if warnings were generated about the input file.

       -v, --verbose
              Generate extra warnings about errors that are normally ignored.

       --big-endian
              Generate big-endian output.

       --little-endian
              Generate little-endian output.

       --no-archive
              Do not use the locale archive file, instead create outputpath as a subdirectory in the same directory as the locale archive file, and create separate output files for locale categories  in
              it.  This is helpful to prevent system locale archive updates from overwriting custom locales created with localedef.

       --no-hard-links
              Do not create hard links between installed locales.

       --no-warnings=warnings
              Comma-separated list of warnings to disable.  Supported warnings are ascii and intcurrsym.

       --posix
              Conform strictly to POSIX.  Implies --verbose.  This option currently has no other effect.  POSIX conformance is assumed if the environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set.

       --prefix=pathname
              Set the prefix to be prepended to the full archive pathname.  By default, the prefix is empty.  Setting the prefix to foo, the archive would be placed in foo/usr/lib/locale/locale-archive.

       --quiet
              Suppress all notifications and warnings, and report only fatal errors.

       --replace
              Replace a locale in the locale archive file.  Without this option, if the locale is in the archive file already, an error occurs.

       --warnings=warnings
              Comma-separated list of warnings to enable.  Supported warnings are ascii and intcurrsym.

       -?, --help
              Print a usage summary and exit.  Also prints the default paths used by localedef.

       --usage
              Print a short usage summary and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print the version number, license, and disclaimer of warranty for localedef.

EXIT STATUS
       One of the following exit values can be returned by localedef:

       0      Command completed successfully.

       1      Warnings or errors occurred, output files were written.

       4      Errors encountered, no output created.

ENVIRONMENT
       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              The --posix flag is assumed if this environment variable is set.

       I18NPATH
              A colon-separated list of search directories for files.

FILES
       /usr/share/i18n/charmaps
              Usual default character map path.

       /usr/share/i18n/locales
              Usual default path for locale definition files.

       /usr/share/i18n/repertoiremaps
              Usual default repertoire map path.

       /usr/lib/locale/locale-archive
              Usual default locale archive location.

       /usr/lib/locale
              Usual default path for compiled individual locale data files.

       outputpath/LC_ADDRESS
              An output file that contains information about formatting of addresses and geography-related items.

       outputpath/LC_COLLATE
              An output file that contains information about the rules for comparing strings.

       outputpath/LC_CTYPE
              An output file that contains information about character classes.

       outputpath/LC_IDENTIFICATION
              An output file that contains metadata about the locale.

       outputpath/LC_MEASUREMENT
              An output file that contains information about locale measurements (metric versus US customary).

       outputpath/LC_MESSAGES/SYS_LC_MESSAGES
              An output file that contains information about the language messages should be printed in, and what an affirmative or negative answer looks like.

       outputpath/LC_MONETARY
              An output file that contains information about formatting of monetary values.

       outputpath/LC_NAME
              An output file that contains information about salutations for persons.

       outputpath/LC_NUMERIC
              An output file that contains information about formatting of nonmonetary numeric values.

       outputpath/LC_PAPER
              An output file that contains information about settings related to standard paper size.

       outputpath/LC_TELEPHONE
              An output file that contains information about formats to be used with telephone services.

       outputpath/LC_TIME
              An output file that contains information about formatting of data and time values.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

EXAMPLES
       Compile the locale files for Finnish in the UTF-8 character set and add it to the default locale archive with the name fi_FI.UTF-8:

           localedef -f UTF-8 -i fi_FI fi_FI.UTF-8

       The  next  example does the same thing, but generates files into the fi_FI.UTF-8 directory which can then be used by programs when the environment variable LOCPATH is set to the current directory
       (note that the last argument must contain a slash):

           localedef -f UTF-8 -i fi_FI ./fi_FI.UTF-8

SEE ALSO
       locale(1), charmap(5), locale(5), repertoiremap(5), locale(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2023-03-12                                                                                    localedef(1)
LOCALEDEF(1P)                                                                            POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                           LOCALEDEF(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       localedef — define locale environment

SYNOPSIS
       localedef [-c] [-f charmap] [-i sourcefile] [-u code_set_name] name

DESCRIPTION
       The localedef utility shall convert source definitions for locale categories into a format usable by the functions and utilities whose operational behavior is determined by the setting of the lo‐
       cale environment variables defined in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale.  It is implementation-defined whether users have the capability to create new locales, in ad‐
       dition to those supplied by the implementation. If the symbolic constant POSIX2_LOCALEDEF is defined, the system supports the creation of new locales.  On  XSI-conformant  systems,  the  symbolic
       constant POSIX2_LOCALEDEF shall be defined.

       The utility shall read source definitions for one or more locale categories belonging to the same locale from the file named in the -i option (if specified) or from standard input.

       The name operand identifies the target locale. The utility shall support the creation of public, or generally accessible locales, as well as private, or restricted-access locales. Implementations
       may restrict the capability to create or modify public locales to users with appropriate privileges.

       Each category source definition shall be identified by the corresponding environment variable name and terminated by an END category-name statement. The following categories shall  be  supported.
       In addition, the input may contain source for implementation-defined categories.

       LC_CTYPE  Defines character classification and case conversion.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Defines collation rules.

       LC_MONETARY
                 Defines the format and symbols used in formatting of monetary information.

       LC_NUMERIC
                 Defines the decimal delimiter, grouping, and grouping symbol for non-monetary numeric editing.

       LC_TIME   Defines the format and content of date and time information.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Defines the format and values of affirmative and negative responses.

OPTIONS
       The localedef utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -c        Create permanent output even if warning messages have been issued.

       -f charmap
                 Specify the pathname of a file containing a mapping of character symbols and collating element symbols to actual character encodings.  The format of the charmap is described in the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File.  The application shall ensure that this option is specified if symbolic names (other than collating sym‐
                 bols defined in a collating-symbol keyword) are used. If the -f option is not present, an implementation-defined character mapping shall be used.

       -i inputfile
                 The  pathname  of a file containing the source definitions. If this option is not present, source definitions shall be read from standard input. The format of the inputfile is described
                 in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 7.3, Locale Definition.

       -u code_set_name
                 Specify the name of a codeset used as the target mapping of character symbols and collating element symbols whose encoding values are defined in terms of the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000  stan‐
                 dard position constant values.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       name      Identifies the locale; see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale for a description of the use of this name. If the name contains one or more <slash> characters,
                 name shall be interpreted as a pathname where the created locale definitions shall be stored. If name does not contain any <slash> characters, the interpretation of the name  is  imple‐
                 mentation-defined  and the locale shall be public. The ability to create public locales in this way may be restricted to users with appropriate privileges. (As a consequence of specify‐
                 ing one name, although several categories can be processed in one execution, only categories belonging to the same locale can be processed.)

STDIN
       Unless the -i option is specified, the standard input shall be a text file containing one or more locale category source definitions, as described in the Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2017,
       Section 7.3, Locale Definition.  When lines are continued using the escape character mechanism, there is no limit to the length of the accumulated continued line.

INPUT FILES
       The character set mapping file specified as the charmap option-argument is described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File.  If a locale cat‐
       egory source definition contains a copy statement, as defined in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale, and the copy statement names a valid, existing  locale,  then  lo‐
       caledef shall behave as if the source definition had contained a valid category source definition for the named locale.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of localedef:

       LANG      Provide  a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 (This variable has no affect on localedef; the POSIX locale is used for this category.)

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).
                 This variable has no affect on the processing of localedef input data; the POSIX locale is used for this purpose, regardless of the value of this variable.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The utility shall report all categories successfully processed, in an unspecified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The format of the created output is unspecified. If the name operand does not contain a <slash>, the existence of an output file for the locale is unspecified.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       When the -u option is used, the code_set_name option-argument shall be interpreted as an implementation-defined name of a codeset to which the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000 standard position constant val‐
       ues shall be converted via an implementation-defined method. Both the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000 standard position constant values and other formats (decimal, hexadecimal, or octal) shall be  valid  as
       encoding values within the charmap file. The codeset represented by the implementation-defined name can be any codeset that is supported by the implementation.

       When  conflicts  occur  between the charmap specification of <code_set_name>, <mb_cur_max>, or <mb_cur_min> and the implementation-defined interpretation of these respective items for the codeset
       represented by the -u option-argument code_set_name, the result is unspecified.

       When conflicts occur between the charmap encoding values specified for symbolic names of characters of the portable character set and the implementation-defined assignment of  character  encoding
       values, the result is unspecified.

       If a non-printable character in the charmap has a width specified that is not -1, the result will be undefined.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    No errors occurred and the locales were successfully created.

        1    Warnings occurred and the locales were successfully created.

        2    The locale specification exceeded implementation limits or the coded character set or sets used were not supported by the implementation, and no locale was created.

        3    The capability to create new locales is not supported by the implementation.

       >3    Warnings or errors occurred and no output was created.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If an error is detected, no permanent output shall be created.

       If warnings occur, permanent output shall be created if the -c option was specified. The following conditions shall cause warning messages to be issued:

        *  If a symbolic name not found in the charmap file is used for the descriptions of the LC_CTYPE or LC_COLLATE categories (for other categories, this shall be an error condition).

        *  If the number of operands to the order keyword exceeds the {COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX} limit.

        *  If optional keywords not supported by the implementation are present in the source.

       Other implementation-defined conditions may also cause warnings.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  charmap  definition is optional, and is contained outside the locale definition. This allows both completely self-defined source files, and generic sources (applicable to more than one code‐
       set). To aid portability, all charmap definitions must use the same symbolic names for the portable character set. As explained in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 6.4,  Char‐
       acter  Set  Description  File, it is implementation-defined whether or not users or applications can provide additional character set description files. Therefore, the -f option might be operable
       only when an implementation-defined charmap is named.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The output produced by the localedef utility is implementation-defined. The name operand is used to identify the specific locale. (As a consequence, although several categories can  be  processed
       in one execution, only categories belonging to the same locale can be processed.)

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       locale

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File, Chapter 7, Locale, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                      LOCALEDEF(1P)
