MAN(1)                                                                                      Manual pager utils                                                                                      MAN(1)

NAME
       man - an interface to the system reference manuals

SYNOPSIS
       man [man options] [[section] page ...] ...
       man -k [apropos options] regexp ...
       man -K [man options] [section] term ...
       man -f [whatis options] page ...
       man -l [man options] file ...
       man -w|-W [man options] page ...

DESCRIPTION
       man  is  the system's manual pager.  Each page argument given to man is normally the name of a program, utility or function.  The manual page associated with each of these arguments is then found
       and displayed.  A section, if provided, will direct man to look only in that section of the manual.  The default action is to search in all of the available sections following a pre-defined order
       (see DEFAULTS), and to show only the first page found, even if page exists in several sections.

       The table below shows the section numbers of the manual followed by the types of pages they contain.

       1   Executable programs or shell commands
       2   System calls (functions provided by the kernel)
       3   Library calls (functions within program libraries)
       4   Special files (usually found in /dev)
       5   File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd
       6   Games
       7   Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g. man(7), groff(7), man-pages(7)
       8   System administration commands (usually only for root)
       9   Kernel routines [Non standard]

       A manual page consists of several sections.

       Conventional  section  names include NAME, SYNOPSIS, CONFIGURATION, DESCRIPTION, OPTIONS, EXIT STATUS, RETURN VALUE, ERRORS, ENVIRONMENT, FILES, VERSIONS, CONFORMING TO, NOTES, BUGS, EXAMPLE, AU‐
       THORS, and SEE ALSO.

       The following conventions apply to the SYNOPSIS section and can be used as a guide in other sections.

       bold text          type exactly as shown.
       italic text        replace with appropriate argument.
       [-abc]             any or all arguments within [ ] are optional.
       -a|-b              options delimited by | cannot be used together.
       argument ...       argument is repeatable.
       [expression] ...   entire expression within [ ] is repeatable.

       Exact rendering may vary depending on the output device.  For instance, man will usually not be able to render italics when running in a terminal, and will typically use  underlined  or  coloured
       text instead.

       The  command or function illustration is a pattern that should match all possible invocations.  In some cases it is advisable to illustrate several exclusive invocations as is shown in the SYNOP‐
       SIS section of this manual page.

EXAMPLES
       man ls
           Display the manual page for the item (program) ls.

       man man.7
           Display the manual page for macro package man from section 7.  (This is an alternative spelling of "man 7 man".)

       man 'man(7)'
           Display the manual page for macro package man from section 7.  (This is another alternative spelling of "man 7 man".  It may be more convenient when copying and  pasting  cross-references  to
           manual pages.  Note that the parentheses must normally be quoted to protect them from the shell.)

       man -a intro
           Display, in succession, all of the available intro manual pages contained within the manual.  It is possible to quit between successive displays or skip any of them.

       man -t bash | lpr -Pps
           Format  the  manual page for bash into the default troff or groff format and pipe it to the printer named ps.  The default output for groff is usually PostScript.  man --help should advise as
           to which processor is bound to the -t option.

       man -l -Tdvi ./foo.1x.gz > ./foo.1x.dvi
           This command will decompress and format the nroff source manual page ./foo.1x.gz into a device independent (dvi) file.  The redirection is necessary as the -T flag causes  output  to  be  di‐
           rected to stdout with no pager.  The output could be viewed with a program such as xdvi or further processed into PostScript using a program such as dvips.

       man -k printf
           Search the short descriptions and manual page names for the keyword printf as regular expression.  Print out any matches.  Equivalent to apropos printf.

       man -f smail
           Lookup the manual pages referenced by smail and print out the short descriptions of any found.  Equivalent to whatis smail.

OVERVIEW
       Many  options are available to man in order to give as much flexibility as possible to the user.  Changes can be made to the search path, section order, output processor, and other behaviours and
       operations detailed below.

       If set, various environment variables are interrogated to determine the operation of man.  It is possible to set the "catch-all" variable $MANOPT to any string in command line  format,  with  the
       exception  that  any spaces used as part of an option's argument must be escaped (preceded by a backslash).  man will parse $MANOPT prior to parsing its own command line.  Those options requiring
       an argument will be overridden by the same options found on the command line.  To reset all of the options set in $MANOPT, -D can be specified as the initial command line option.  This will allow
       man to "forget" about the options specified in $MANOPT, although they must still have been valid.

       Manual  pages  are  normally stored in nroff(1) format under a directory such as /usr/share/man.  In some installations, there may also be preformatted cat pages to improve performance.  See man‐
       path(5) for details of where these files are stored.

       This package supports manual pages in multiple languages, controlled by your locale.  If your system did not set this up for you automatically, then you may need to set  $LC_MESSAGES,  $LANG,  or
       another system-dependent environment variable to indicate your preferred locale, usually specified in the POSIX format:

       <language>[_<territory>[.<character-set>[,<version>]]]

       If the desired page is available in your locale, it will be displayed in lieu of the standard (usually American English) page.

       If  you  find  that the translations supplied with this package are not available in your native language and you would like to supply them, please contact the maintainer who will be coordinating
       such activity.

       Individual manual pages are normally written and maintained by the maintainers of the program, function, or other topic that they document, and are not included with this package.   If  you  find
       that a manual page is missing or inadequate, please report that to the maintainers of the package in question.

       For information regarding other features and extensions available with this manual pager, please read the documents supplied with the package.

DEFAULTS
       The order of sections to search may be overridden by the environment variable $MANSECT or by the SECTION directive in /etc/man_db.conf.  By default it is as follows:

              1 1p n l 8 3 3p 0 0p 2 3type 5 4 9 6 7

       The formatted manual page is displayed using a pager.  This can be specified in a number of ways, or else will fall back to a default (see option -P for details).

       The filters are deciphered by a number of means.  Firstly, the command line option -p or the environment variable $MANROFFSEQ is interrogated.  If -p was not used and the environment variable was
       not set, the initial line of the nroff file is parsed for a preprocessor string.  To contain a valid preprocessor string, the first line must resemble

       '\" <string>

       where string can be any combination of letters described by option -p below.

       If none of the above methods provide any filter information, a default set is used.

       A formatting pipeline is formed from the filters and the primary formatter (nroff or [tg]roff with -t) and executed.  Alternatively, if an executable program mandb_nfmt (or  mandb_tfmt  with  -t)
       exists in the man tree root, it is executed instead.  It gets passed the manual source file, the preprocessor string, and optionally the device specified with -T or -E as arguments.

OPTIONS
       Non-argument options that are duplicated either on the command line, in $MANOPT, or both, are not harmful.  For options that require an argument, each duplication will override the previous argu‐
       ment value.

   General options
       -C file, --config-file=file
              Use this user configuration file rather than the default of ~/.manpath.

       -d, --debug
              Print debugging information.

       -D, --default
              This option is normally issued as the very first option and resets man's behaviour to its default.  Its use is to reset those options that may have been set in $MANOPT.  Any  options  that
              follow -D will have their usual effect.

       --warnings[=warnings]
              Enable  warnings from groff.  This may be used to perform sanity checks on the source text of manual pages.  warnings is a comma-separated list of warning names; if it is not supplied, the
              default is "mac".  See the “Warnings” node in info groff for a list of available warning names.

   Main modes of operation
       -f, --whatis
              Equivalent to whatis.  Display a short description from the manual page, if available.  See whatis(1) for details.

       -k, --apropos
              Equivalent to apropos.  Search the short manual page descriptions for keywords and display any matches.  See apropos(1) for details.

       -K, --global-apropos
              Search for text in all manual pages.  This is a brute-force search, and is likely to take some time; if you can, you should specify a section to reduce the number of pages that need to  be
              searched.  Search terms may be simple strings (the default), or regular expressions if the --regex option is used.

              Note that this searches the sources of the manual pages, not the rendered text, and so may include false positives due to things like comments in source files.  Searching the rendered text
              would be much slower.

       -l, --local-file
              Activate "local" mode.  Format and display local manual files instead of searching through the system's manual collection.  Each manual page argument will be interpreted as an nroff source
              file  in  the  correct format.  No cat file is produced.  If '-' is listed as one of the arguments, input will be taken from stdin.  When this option is not used, and man fails to find the
              page required, before displaying the error message, it attempts to act as if this option was supplied, using the name as a filename and looking for an exact match.

       -w, --where, --path, --location
              Don't actually display the manual page, but do print the location of the source nroff file that would be formatted.  If the -a option is also used, then print the locations of  all  source
              files that match the search criteria.

       -W, --where-cat, --location-cat
              Don't actually display the manual page, but do print the location of the preformatted cat file that would be displayed.  If the -a option is also used, then print the locations of all pre‐
              formatted cat files that match the search criteria.

              If -w and -W are both used, then print both source file and cat file separated by a space.  If all of -w, -W, and -a are used, then do this for each possible match.

       -c, --catman
              This option is not for general use and should only be used by the catman program.

       -R encoding, --recode=encoding
              Instead of formatting the manual page in the usual way, output its source converted to the specified encoding.  If you already know the encoding of the source file, you can also  use  man‐
              conv(1) directly.  However, this option allows you to convert several manual pages to a single encoding without having to explicitly state the encoding of each, provided that they were al‐
              ready installed in a structure similar to a manual page hierarchy.

              Consider using man-recode(1) instead for converting multiple manual pages, since it has an interface designed for bulk conversion and so can be much faster.

   Finding manual pages
       -L locale, --locale=locale
              man will normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function setlocale(3) which interrogates various environment variables, possibly including $LC_MESSAGES  and  $LANG.   To
              temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a locale string directly to man.  Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages actually begins.  Output
              such as the help message will always be displayed in the initially determined locale.

       -m system[,...], --systems=system[,...]
              If this system has access to other operating systems' manual pages, they can be accessed using this option.  To search for a manual page from NewOS's manual page collection, use the option
              -m NewOS.

              The  system specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.  To include a search of the native operating system's manual pages, include the system name man in the
              argument string.  This option will override the $SYSTEM environment variable.

       -M path, --manpath=path
              Specify an alternate manpath to use.  By default, man uses manpath derived code to determine the path to search.  This option overrides the $MANPATH environment variable and causes  option
              -m to be ignored.

              A path specified as a manpath must be the root of a manual page hierarchy structured into sections as described in the man-db manual (under "The manual page system").  To view manual pages
              outside such hierarchies, see the -l option.

       -S list, -s list, --sections=list
              The given list is a colon- or comma-separated list of sections, used to determine which manual sections to search and in what order.  This option overrides the $MANSECT  environment  vari‐
              able.  (The -s spelling is for compatibility with System V.)

       -e sub-extension, --extension=sub-extension
              Some  systems incorporate large packages of manual pages, such as those that accompany the Tcl package, into the main manual page hierarchy.  To get around the problem of having two manual
              pages with the same name such as exit(3), the Tcl pages were usually all assigned to section l.  As this is unfortunate, it is now possible to put the pages in the correct section, and  to
              assign  a  specific  "extension" to them, in this case, exit(3tcl).  Under normal operation, man will display exit(3) in preference to exit(3tcl).  To negotiate this situation and to avoid
              having to know which section the page you require resides in, it is now possible to give man a sub-extension string indicating which package the page must belong to.  Using the above exam‐
              ple, supplying the option -e tcl to man will restrict the search to pages having an extension of *tcl.

       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore case when searching for manual pages.  This is the default.

       -I, --match-case
              Search for manual pages case-sensitively.

       --regex
              Show  all pages with any part of either their names or their descriptions matching each page argument as a regular expression, as with apropos(1).  Since there is usually no reasonable way
              to pick a "best" page when searching for a regular expression, this option implies -a.

       --wildcard
              Show all pages with any part of either their names or their descriptions matching each page argument using shell-style wildcards, as with apropos(1) --wildcard.   The  page  argument  must
              match  the  entire  name or description, or match on word boundaries in the description.  Since there is usually no reasonable way to pick a "best" page when searching for a wildcard, this
              option implies -a.

       --names-only
              If the --regex or --wildcard option is used, match only page names, not page descriptions, as with whatis(1).  Otherwise, no effect.

       -a, --all
              By default, man will exit after displaying the most suitable manual page it finds.  Using this option forces man to display all the manual pages with names that match the search criteria.

       -u, --update
              This option causes man to update its database caches of installed manual pages.  This is only needed in rare situations, and it is normally better to run mandb(8) instead.

       --no-subpages
              By default, man will try to interpret pairs of manual page names given on the command line as equivalent to a single manual page name containing a hyphen or an underscore.   This  supports
              the  common  pattern of programs that implement a number of subcommands, allowing them to provide manual pages for each that can be accessed using similar syntax as would be used to invoke
              the subcommands themselves.  For example:

                $ man -aw git diff
                /usr/share/man/man1/git-diff.1.gz

              To disable this behaviour, use the --no-subpages option.

                $ man -aw --no-subpages git diff
                /usr/share/man/man1/git.1.gz
                /usr/share/man/man3/Git.3pm.gz
                /usr/share/man/man1/diff.1.gz

   Controlling formatted output
       -P pager, --pager=pager
              Specify which output pager to use.  By default, man uses less, falling back to cat if less is not found or is not executable.  This option overrides  the  $MANPAGER  environment  variable,
              which in turn overrides the $PAGER environment variable.  It is not used in conjunction with -f or -k.

              The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).  It may not use pipes to connect multiple com‐
              mands; if you need that, use a wrapper script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or on standard input.

       -r prompt, --prompt=prompt
              If a recent version of less is used as the pager, man will attempt to set its prompt and some sensible options.  The default prompt looks like

               Manual page name(sec) line x

              where name denotes the manual page name, sec denotes the section it was found under and x the current line number.  This is achieved by using the $LESS environment variable.

              Supplying -r with a string will override this default.  The string may contain the text $MAN_PN which will be expanded to the name of the current manual page  and  its  section  name  sur‐
              rounded by "(" and ")".  The string used to produce the default could be expressed as

              \ Manual\ page\ \$MAN_PN\ ?ltline\ %lt?L/%L.:
              byte\ %bB?s/%s..?\ (END):?pB\ %pB\\%..
              (press h for help or q to quit)

              It  is  broken into three lines here for the sake of readability only.  For its meaning see the less(1) manual page.  The prompt string is first evaluated by the shell.  All double quotes,
              back-quotes and backslashes in the prompt must be escaped by a preceding backslash.  The prompt string may end in an escaped $ which may be followed by further options for  less.   By  de‐
              fault man sets the -ix8 options.

              The $MANLESS environment variable described below may be used to set a default prompt string if none is supplied on the command line.

       -7, --ascii
              When  viewing  a  pure  ascii(7) manual page on a 7 bit terminal or terminal emulator, some characters may not display correctly when using the latin1(7) device description with GNU nroff.
              This option allows pure ascii manual pages to be displayed in ascii with the latin1 device.  It will not translate any latin1 text.  The following table shows the  translations  performed:
              some parts of it may only be displayed properly when using GNU nroff's latin1(7) device.

              Description           Octal   latin1   ascii
              ─────────────────────────────────────────────
              continuation hyphen    255      ‐        -
              bullet (middle dot)    267      •        o
              acute accent           264      ´        '
              multiplication sign    327      ×        x

              If the latin1 column displays correctly, your terminal may be set up for latin1 characters and this option is not necessary.  If the latin1 and ascii columns are identical, you are reading
              this page using this option or man did not format this page using the latin1 device description.  If the latin1 column is missing or corrupt, you may need to view manual  pages  with  this
              option.

              This option is ignored when using options -t, -H, -T, or -Z and may be useless for nroff other than GNU's.

       -E encoding, --encoding=encoding
              Generate output for a character encoding other than the default.  For backward compatibility, encoding may be an nroff device such as ascii, latin1, or utf8 as well as a true character en‐
              coding such as UTF-8.

       --no-hyphenation, --nh
              Normally, nroff will automatically hyphenate text at line breaks even in words that do not contain hyphens, if it is necessary to do so to lay out words on a line without  excessive  spac‐
              ing.  This option disables automatic hyphenation, so words will only be hyphenated if they already contain hyphens.

              If  you  are  writing a manual page and simply want to prevent nroff from hyphenating a word at an inappropriate point, do not use this option, but consult the nroff documentation instead;
              for instance, you can put "\%" inside a word to indicate that it may be hyphenated at that point, or put "\%" at the start of a word to prevent it from being hyphenated.

       --no-justification, --nj
              Normally, nroff will automatically justify text to both margins.  This option disables full justification, leaving justified only to the left margin, sometimes called "ragged-right" text.

              If you are writing a manual page and simply want to prevent nroff from justifying certain paragraphs, do not use this option, but consult the nroff documentation instead; for instance, you
              can use the ".na", ".nf", ".fi", and ".ad" requests to temporarily disable adjusting and filling.

       -p string, --preprocessor=string
              Specify  the  sequence of preprocessors to run before nroff or troff/groff.  Not all installations will have a full set of preprocessors.  Some of the preprocessors and the letters used to
              designate them are: eqn (e), grap (g), pic (p), tbl (t), vgrind (v), refer (r).  This option overrides the $MANROFFSEQ environment variable.  zsoelim is always run as the very  first  pre‐
              processor.

       -t, --troff
              Use groff -mandoc to format the manual page to stdout.  This option is not required in conjunction with -H, -T, or -Z.

       -T[device], --troff-device[=device]
              This  option  is  used  to  change  groff (or possibly troff's) output to be suitable for a device other than the default.  It implies -t.  Examples (provided with Groff-1.17) include dvi,
              latin1, ps, utf8, X75 and X100.

       -H[browser], --html[=browser]
              This option will cause groff to produce HTML output, and will display that output in a web browser.  The choice of browser is determined by the optional browser argument  if  one  is  pro‐
              vided, by the $BROWSER environment variable, or by a compile-time default if that is unset (usually lynx).  This option implies -t, and will only work with GNU troff.

       -X[dpi], --gxditview[=dpi]
              This  option  displays  the output of groff in a graphical window using the gxditview program.  The dpi (dots per inch) may be 75, 75-12, 100, or 100-12, defaulting to 75; the -12 variants
              use a 12-point base font.  This option implies -T with the X75, X75-12, X100, or X100-12 device respectively.

       -Z, --ditroff
              groff will run troff and then use an appropriate post-processor to produce output suitable for the chosen device.  If groff -mandoc is groff, this option is passed to groff and  will  sup‐
              press the use of a post-processor.  It implies -t.

   Getting help
       -?, --help
              Print a help message and exit.

       --usage
              Print a short usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Usage, syntax or configuration file error.

       2      Operational error.

       3      A child process returned a non-zero exit status.

       16     At least one of the pages/files/keywords didn't exist or wasn't matched.

ENVIRONMENT
       MANPATH
              If $MANPATH is set, its value is used as the path to search for manual pages.

              See the SEARCH PATH section of manpath(5) for the default behaviour and details of how this environment variable is handled.

       MANROFFOPT
              Every time man invokes the formatter (nroff, troff, or groff), it adds the contents of $MANROFFOPT to the formatter's command line.

       MANROFFSEQ
              If $MANROFFSEQ is set, its value is used to determine the set of preprocessors to pass each manual page through.  The default preprocessor list is system dependent.

       MANSECT
              If  $MANSECT  is set, its value is a colon-delimited list of sections and it is used to determine which manual sections to search and in what order.  The default is "1 1p n l 8 3 3p 0 0p 2
              3type 5 4 9 6 7", unless overridden by the SECTION directive in /etc/man_db.conf.

       MANPAGER, PAGER
              If $MANPAGER or $PAGER is set ($MANPAGER is used in preference), its value is used as the name of the program used to display the manual page.  By default, less is used,  falling  back  to
              cat if less is not found or is not executable.

              The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).  It may not use pipes to connect multiple com‐
              mands; if you need that, use a wrapper script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or on standard input.

       MANLESS
              If $MANLESS is set, its value will be used as the default prompt string for the less pager, as if it had been passed using the -r option (so any occurrences of the text $MAN_PN will be ex‐
              panded  in  the  same  way).  For example, if you want to set the prompt string unconditionally to “my prompt string”, set $MANLESS to ‘-Psmy prompt string’.  Using the -r option overrides
              this environment variable.

       BROWSER
              If $BROWSER is set, its value is a colon-delimited list of commands, each of which in turn is used to try to start a web browser for man --html.  In each command, %s is replaced by a file‐
              name containing the HTML output from groff, %% is replaced by a single percent sign (%), and %c is replaced by a colon (:).

       SYSTEM If $SYSTEM is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been specified as the argument to the -m option.

       MANOPT If $MANOPT is set, it will be parsed prior to man's command line and is expected to be in a similar format.  As all of the other man specific environment variables can be expressed as com‐
              mand line options, and are thus candidates for being included in $MANOPT it is expected that they will become obsolete.  N.B.  All spaces that should be interpreted as part of an  option's
              argument must be escaped.

       MANWIDTH
              If  $MANWIDTH  is  set, its value is used as the line length for which manual pages should be formatted.  If it is not set, manual pages will be formatted with a line length appropriate to
              the current terminal (using the value of $COLUMNS, and ioctl(2) if available, or falling back to 80 characters if neither is available).  Cat pages will only be saved when the default for‐
              matting can be used, that is when the terminal line length is between 66 and 80 characters.

       MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
              Normally,  when  output  is  not being directed to a terminal (such as to a file or a pipe), formatting characters are discarded to make it easier to read the result without special tools.
              However, if $MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING is set to any non-empty value, these formatting characters are retained.  This may be useful for wrappers around man that can interpret formatting  charac‐
              ters.

       MAN_KEEP_STDERR
              Normally,  when  output is being directed to a terminal (usually to a pager), any error output from the command used to produce formatted versions of manual pages is discarded to avoid in‐
              terfering with the pager's display.  Programs such as groff often produce relatively minor error messages about typographical problems such as poor alignment, which are unsightly and  gen‐
              erally  confusing  when displayed along with the manual page.  However, some users want to see them anyway, so, if $MAN_KEEP_STDERR is set to any non-empty value, error output will be dis‐
              played as usual.

       MAN_DISABLE_SECCOMP
              On Linux, man normally confines subprocesses that handle untrusted data using a seccomp(2) sandbox.  This makes it safer to run complex parsing code over arbitrary manual pages.   If  this
              goes wrong for some reason unrelated to the content of the page being displayed, you can set $MAN_DISABLE_SECCOMP to any non-empty value to disable the sandbox.

       PIPELINE_DEBUG
              If the $PIPELINE_DEBUG environment variable is set to "1", then man will print debugging messages to standard error describing each subprocess it runs.

       LANG, LC_MESSAGES
              Depending  on  system  and  implementation,  either or both of $LANG and $LC_MESSAGES will be interrogated for the current message locale.  man will display its messages in that locale (if
              available).  See setlocale(3) for precise details.

FILES
       /etc/man_db.conf
              man-db configuration file.

       /usr/share/man
              A global manual page hierarchy.

SEE ALSO
       apropos(1), groff(1), less(1), manpath(1), nroff(1), troff(1), whatis(1), zsoelim(1), manpath(5), man(7), catman(8), mandb(8)

       Documentation for some packages may be available in other formats, such as info(1) or HTML.

HISTORY
       1990, 1991 – Originally written by John W. Eaton (jwe@che.utexas.edu).

       Dec 23 1992: Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) applied bug fixes supplied by Willem Kasdorp (wkasdo@nikhefk.nikef.nl).

       30th April 1994 – 23rd February 2000: Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) has been developing and maintaining this package with the help of a few dedicated people.

       30th October 1996 – 30th March 2001: Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org> maintained and enhanced this package for the Debian project, with the help of all the community.

       31st March 2001 – present day: Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org> is now developing and maintaining man-db.

BUGS
       https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
       https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db

2.11.2                                                                                          2023-01-08                                                                                          MAN(1)
MAN(1P)                                                                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                                 MAN(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       man — display system documentation

SYNOPSIS
       man [-k] name...

DESCRIPTION
       The man utility shall write information about each of the name operands. If name is the name of a standard utility, man at a minimum shall write a message describing the syntax used by the  stan‐
       dard utility, its options, and operands. If more information is available, the man utility shall provide it in an implementation-defined manner.

       An implementation may provide information for values of name other than the standard utilities. Standard utilities that are listed as optional and that are not supported by the implementation ei‐
       ther shall cause a brief message indicating that fact to be displayed or shall cause a full display of information as described previously.

OPTIONS
       The man utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       -k      Interpret name operands as keywords to be used in searching a utilities summary database that contains a brief purpose entry for each standard utility and write  lines  from  the  summary
               database that match any of the keywords. The keyword search shall produce results that are the equivalent of the output of the following command:

                   grep -Ei '
                   name
                   name
                   ...
                   ' summary-database

               This  assumes that the summary-database is a text file with a single entry per line; this organization is not required and the example using grep -Ei is merely illustrative of the type of
               search intended. The purpose entry to be included in the database shall consist of a terse description of the purpose of the utility.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       name      A keyword or the name of a standard utility. When -k is not specified and name does not represent one of the standard utilities, the results are unspecified.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of man:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and in the sum‐
                 mary database). The value of LC_CTYPE need not affect the format of the information written about the name operands.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PAGER     Determine an output filtering command for writing the output to a terminal. Any string acceptable as a command_string operand to the sh -c command shall be valid. When  standard  output
                 is a terminal device, the reference page output shall be piped through the command. If the PAGER variable is null or not set, the command shall be either more or another paginator util‐
                 ity documented in the system documentation.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The man utility shall write text describing the syntax of the utility name, its options and its operands, or, when -k is specified, lines from the summary database. The format of this text is im‐
       plementation-defined.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used for diagnostic messages, and may also be used for informational messages of unspecified format.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       It  is  recognized that the man utility is only of minimal usefulness as specified. The opinion of the standard developers was strongly divided as to how much or how little information man should
       be required to provide. They considered, however, that the provision of some portable way of accessing documentation would aid user portability. The arguments against a fuller specification were:

        *  Large quantities of documentation should not be required on a system that does not have excess disk space.

        *  The current manual system does not present information in a manner that greatly aids user portability.

        *  A ``better help system'' is currently an area in which vendors feel that they can add value to their POSIX implementations.

       The -f option was considered, but due to implementation differences, it was not included in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017.

       The description was changed to be more specific about what has to be displayed for a utility. The standard developers considered it insufficient to allow a display of only  the  synopsis  without
       giving a short description of what each option and operand does.

       The  ``purpose'' entry to be included in the database can be similar to the section title (less the numeric prefix) from this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 for each utility.  These titles are similar to
       those used in historical systems for this purpose.

       See mailx for rationale concerning the default paginator.

       The caveat in the LC_CTYPE description was added because it is not a requirement that an implementation provide reference pages for all of its supported locales on each system; changing  LC_CTYPE
       does not necessarily translate the reference page into another language. This is equivalent to the current state of LC_MESSAGES in POSIX.1‐2008—locale-specific messages are not yet a requirement.

       The historical MANPATH variable is not included in POSIX because no attempt is made to specify naming conventions for reference page files, nor even to mandate that they are files at all. On some
       implementations they could be a true database, a hypertext file, or even fixed strings within the man executable. The standard developers considered the portability of reference pages to be  out‐
       side  their  scope  of  work. However, users should be aware that MANPATH is implemented on a number of historical systems and that it can be used to tailor the search pattern for reference pages
       from the various categories (utilities, functions, file formats, and so on) when the system administrator reveals the location and conventions for reference pages on the system.

       The keyword search can rely on at least the text of the section titles from these utility descriptions, and the implementation may add more keywords. The term ``section  titles''  refers  to  the
       strings such as:

           man — Display system documentation
           ps — Report process status

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       more

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                            MAN(1P)
man(7)                                                                               Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                               man(7)

NAME
       man - macros to format man pages

SYNOPSIS
       groff -Tascii -man file ...
       groff -Tps -man file ...

       man [section] title

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page explains the groff an.tmac macro package (often called the man macro package).  This macro package should be used by developers when writing or porting man pages for Linux.  It
       is fairly compatible with other versions of this macro package, so porting man pages should not be a major problem (exceptions include the NET-2 BSD release, which uses a totally different  macro
       package called mdoc; see mdoc(7)).

       Note that NET-2 BSD mdoc man pages can be used with groff simply by specifying the -mdoc option instead of the -man option.  Using the -mandoc option is, however, recommended, since this will au‐
       tomatically detect which macro package is in use.

       For conventions that should be employed when writing man pages for the Linux man-pages package, see man-pages(7).

   Title line
       The first command in a man page (after comment lines, that is, lines that start with .\") should be

              .TH title section date source manual

       For details of the arguments that should be supplied to the TH command, see man-pages(7).

       Note that BSD mdoc-formatted pages begin with the Dd command, not the TH command.

   Sections
       Sections are started with .SH followed by the heading name.

       The only mandatory heading is NAME, which should be the first section and be followed on the next line by a one-line description of the program:

              .SH NAME
              item \- description

       It is extremely important that this format is followed, and that there is a backslash before the single dash which follows the item name.  This syntax is used by the mandb(8) program to create  a
       database of short descriptions for the whatis(1) and apropos(1) commands.  (See lexgrog(1) for further details on the syntax of the NAME section.)

       For a list of other sections that might appear in a manual page, see man-pages(7).

   Fonts
       The commands to select the type face are:

       .B  Bold

       .BI Bold alternating with italics (especially useful for function specifications)

       .BR Bold alternating with Roman (especially useful for referring to other manual pages)

       .I  Italics

       .IB Italics alternating with bold

       .IR Italics alternating with Roman

       .RB Roman alternating with bold

       .RI Roman alternating with italics

       .SB Small alternating with bold

       .SM Small (useful for acronyms)

       Traditionally, each command can have up to six arguments, but the GNU implementation removes this limitation (you might still want to limit yourself to 6 arguments for portability's sake).  Argu‐
       ments are delimited by spaces.  Double quotes can be used to specify an argument which contains spaces.  For the macros that produce alternating type faces, the arguments will be printed next  to
       each other without intervening spaces, so that the .BR command can be used to specify a word in bold followed by a mark of punctuation in Roman.  If no arguments are given, the command is applied
       to the following line of text.

   Other macros and strings
       Below are other relevant macros and predefined strings.  Unless noted otherwise, all macros cause a break (end the current line of text).  Many of these macros set or use the "prevailing indent".
       The  "prevailing  indent" value is set by any macro with the parameter i below; macros may omit i in which case the current prevailing indent will be used.  As a result, successive indented para‐
       graphs can use the same indent without respecifying the indent value.  A normal (nonindented) paragraph resets the prevailing indent value to its default value (0.5 inches).  By default, a  given
       indent is measured in ens; try to use ens or ems as units for indents, since these will automatically adjust to font size changes.  The other key macro definitions are:

   Normal paragraphs
       .LP      Same as .PP (begin a new paragraph).

       .P       Same as .PP (begin a new paragraph).

       .PP      Begin a new paragraph and reset prevailing indent.

   Relative margin indent
       .RS i    Start  relative  margin  indent: moves the left margin i to the right (if i is omitted, the prevailing indent value is used).  A new prevailing indent is set to 0.5 inches.  As a result,
                all following paragraph(s) will be indented until the corresponding .RE.

       .RE      End relative margin indent and restores the previous value of the prevailing indent.

   Indented paragraph macros
       .HP i    Begin paragraph with a hanging indent (the first line of the paragraph is at the left margin of normal paragraphs, and the rest of the paragraph's lines are indented).

       .IP x i  Indented paragraph with optional hanging tag.  If the tag x is omitted, the entire following paragraph is indented by i.  If the tag x is provided, it is hung at the left  margin  before
                the  following  indented paragraph (this is just like .TP except the tag is included with the command instead of being on the following line).  If the tag is too long, the text after the
                tag will be moved down to the next line (text will not be lost or garbled).  For bulleted lists, use this macro with \(bu (bullet) or \(em (em dash) as the tag, and for  numbered  lists,
                use the number or letter followed by a period as the tag; this simplifies translation to other formats.

       .TP i    Begin paragraph with hanging tag.  The tag is given on the next line, but its results are like those of the .IP command.

   Hypertext link macros
       .UR url
              Insert a hypertext link to the URI (URL) url, with all text up to the following .UE macro as the link text.

       .UE [trailer]
              Terminate  the  link  text  of the preceding .UR macro, with the optional trailer (if present, usually a closing parenthesis and/or end-of-sentence punctuation) immediately following.  For
              non-HTML output devices (e.g., man -Tutf8), the link text is followed by the URL in angle brackets; if there is no link text, the URL is printed as its own link text, surrounded  by  angle
              brackets.   (Angle  brackets may not be available on all output devices.)  For the HTML output device, the link text is hyperlinked to the URL; if there is no link text, the URL is printed
              as its own link text.

       These macros have been supported since GNU Troff 1.20 (2009-01-05) and Heirloom Doctools Troff since 160217 (2016-02-17).

   Miscellaneous macros
       .DT      Reset tabs to default tab values (every 0.5 inches); does not cause a break.

       .PD d    Set inter-paragraph vertical distance to d (if omitted, d=0.4v); does not cause a break.

       .SS t    Subheading t (like .SH, but used for a subsection inside a section).

   Predefined strings
       The man package has the following predefined strings:

       \*R    Registration Symbol: ®

       \*S    Change to default font size

       \*(Tm  Trademark Symbol: ™

       \*(lq  Left angled double quote: “

       \*(rq  Right angled double quote: ”

   Safe subset
       Although technically man is a troff macro package, in reality a large number of other tools process man page files that don't implement all of troff's abilities.  Thus, it's best to avoid some of
       troff's  more exotic abilities where possible to permit these other tools to work correctly.  Avoid using the various troff preprocessors (if you must, go ahead and use tbl(1), but try to use the
       IP and TP commands instead for two-column tables).  Avoid using computations; most other tools can't process them.  Use simple commands that are easy to translate to other formats.  The following
       troff macros are believed to be safe (though in many cases they will be ignored by translators): \", ., ad, bp, br, ce, de, ds, el, ie, if, fi, ft, hy, ig, in, na, ne, nf, nh, ps, so, sp, ti, tr.

       You may also use many troff escape sequences (those sequences beginning with \).  When you need to include the backslash character as normal text, use \e.  Other sequences you may use, where x or
       xx are any characters and N is any digit, include: \', \`, \-, \., \", \%, \*x, \*(xx, \(xx, \$N, \nx, \n(xx, \fx, and \f(xx.  Avoid using the escape sequences for drawing graphics.

       Do not use the optional parameter for bp (break page).  Use only positive values for sp (vertical space).  Don't define a macro (de) with the same name as a macro in this or the mdoc macro  pack‐
       age  with  a different meaning; it's likely that such redefinitions will be ignored.  Every positive indent (in) should be paired with a matching negative indent (although you should be using the
       RS and RE macros instead).  The condition test (if,ie) should only have 't' or 'n' as the condition.  Only translations (tr) that can be ignored should be used.  Font changes (ft and the  \f  es‐
       cape sequence) should only have the values 1, 2, 3, 4, R, I, B, P, or CW (the ft command may also have no parameters).

       If  you  use capabilities beyond these, check the results carefully on several tools.  Once you've confirmed that the additional capability is safe, let the maintainer of this document know about
       the safe command or sequence that should be added to this list.

FILES
       /usr/share/groff/[*/]tmac/an.tmac
       /usr/man/whatis

NOTES
       By all means include full URLs (or URIs) in the text itself; some tools such as man2html(1) can automatically turn them into hypertext links.  You can also use the UR and UE  macros  to  identify
       links to related information.  If you include URLs, use the full URL (e.g., ⟨http://www.kernel.org⟩) to ensure that tools can automatically find the URLs.

       Tools processing these files should open the file and examine the first nonwhitespace character.  A period (.) or single quote (') at the beginning of a line indicates a troff-based file (such as
       man or mdoc).  A left angle bracket (<) indicates an SGML/XML-based file (such as HTML or Docbook).  Anything else suggests simple ASCII text (e.g., a "catman" result).

       Many man pages begin with '\" followed by a space and a list of characters, indicating how the page is to be preprocessed.  For portability's sake to non-troff translators we recommend  that  you
       avoid  using anything other than tbl(1), and Linux can detect that automatically.  However, you might want to include this information so your man page can be handled by other (less capable) sys‐
       tems.  Here are the definitions of the preprocessors invoked by these characters:

       e  eqn(1)

       g  grap(1)

       p  pic(1)

       r  refer(1)

       t  tbl(1)

       v  vgrind(1)

BUGS
       Most of the macros describe formatting (e.g., font type and spacing) instead of marking semantic content (e.g., this text is a reference to another page), compared to formats like mdoc  and  Doc‐
       Book  (even HTML has more semantic markings).  This situation makes it harder to vary the man format for different media, to make the formatting consistent for a given media, and to automatically
       insert cross-references.  By sticking to the safe subset described above, it should be easier to automate transitioning to a different reference page format in the future.

       The Sun macro TX is not implemented.

SEE ALSO
       apropos(1), groff(1), lexgrog(1), man(1), man2html(1), whatis(1), groff_man(7), groff_www(7), man-pages(7), mdoc(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2023-02-05                                                                                          man(7)
