MESG(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                       MESG(1)

NAME
       mesg - display (or do not display) messages from other users

SYNOPSIS
       mesg [option] [n|y]

DESCRIPTION
       The mesg utility is invoked by a user to control write access others have to the terminal device associated with standard error output. If write access is allowed, then programs such as talk(1)
       and write(1) may display messages on the terminal.

       Traditionally, write access is allowed by default. However, as users become more conscious of various security risks, there is a trend to remove write access by default, at least for the primary
       login shell. To make sure your ttys are set the way you want them to be set, mesg should be executed in your login scripts.

       The mesg utility silently exits with error status 2 if not executed on terminal. In this case execute mesg is pointless. The command line option --verbose forces mesg to print a warning in this
       situation. This behaviour has been introduced in version 2.33.

ARGUMENTS
       n
           Disallow messages.

       y
           Allow messages to be displayed.

       If no arguments are given, mesg shows the current message status on standard error output.

OPTIONS
       -v, --verbose
           Explain what is being done.

       -h, --help
           Display help text and exit.

       -V, --version
           Print version and exit.

EXIT STATUS
       The mesg utility exits with one of the following values:

       0
           Messages are allowed.

       1
           Messages are not allowed.

       >1
           An error has occurred.

FILES
       /dev/[pt]ty[pq]?

HISTORY
       A mesg command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

SEE ALSO
       login(1), talk(1), write(1), wall(1), xterm(1)

REPORTING BUGS
       For bug reports, use the issue tracker at https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues.

AVAILABILITY
       The mesg command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded from Linux Kernel Archive <https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.

util-linux 2.38.1                                                                               2022-05-11                                                                                         MESG(1)
MESG(1P)                                                                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                                MESG(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mesg — permit or deny messages

SYNOPSIS
       mesg [y|n]

DESCRIPTION
       The mesg utility shall control whether other users are allowed to send messages via write, talk, or other utilities to a terminal device. The terminal  device  affected  shall  be  determined  by
       searching  for  the  first  terminal in the sequence of devices associated with standard input, standard output, and standard error, respectively. With no arguments, mesg shall report the current
       state without changing it. Processes with appropriate privileges may be able to send messages to the terminal independent of the current state.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported in the POSIX locale:

       y         Grant permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device.

       n         Deny permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of mesg:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written (by mesg) to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If no operand is specified, mesg shall display the current terminal state in an unspecified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Receiving messages is allowed.

        1    Receiving messages is not allowed.

       >1    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The mechanism by which the message status of the terminal is changed is unspecified. Therefore, unspecified actions may cause the status of the terminal to change after mesg has successfully com‐
       pleted. These actions may include, but are not limited to: another invocation of the mesg utility, login procedures; invocation of the stty utility, invocation of the  chmod  utility  or  chmod()
       function, and so on.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  terminal  changed  by  mesg is that associated with the standard input, output, or error, rather than the controlling terminal for the session. This is because users logged in more than once
       should be able to change any of their login terminals without having to stop the job running in those sessions.  This is not a security problem involving the terminals of other users because  ap‐
       propriate privileges would be required to affect the terminal of another user.

       The method of checking each of the first three file descriptors in sequence until a terminal is found was adopted from System V.

       The  file  /dev/tty is not specified for the terminal device because it was thought to be too restrictive. Typical environment changes for the n operand are that write permissions are removed for
       others and group from the appropriate device. It was decided to leave the actual description of what is done as unspecified because of potential differences between implementations.

       The format for standard output is unspecified because of differences between historical implementations. This output is generally not useful to shell scripts (they can use the  exit  status),  so
       exact parsing of the output is unnecessary.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       talk, write

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                           MESG(1P)
