NPM-DEPRECATE(1)                                                                                                                                                                          NPM-DEPRECATE(1)

NAME
       npm-deprecate - Deprecate a version of a package

   Synopsis
         npm deprecate <package-spec> <message>

       Note: This command is unaware of workspaces.

   Description
       This command will update the npm registry entry for a package, providing a deprecation warning to all who attempt to install it.

       It works on version ranges https://semver.npmjs.com/ as well as specific versions, so you can do something like this:

         npm deprecate my-thing@"< 0.2.3" "critical bug fixed in v0.2.3"

       SemVer ranges passed to this command are interpreted such that they do include prerelease versions.  For example:

         npm deprecate my-thing@1.x "1.x is no longer supported"

       In this case, a version my-thing@1.0.0-beta.0 will also be deprecated.

       You must be the package owner to deprecate something.  See the owner and adduser help topics.

       To un-deprecate a package, specify an empty string ("") for the message argument. Note that you must use double quotes with no space between them to format an empty string.

   Configuration
   registry
       • Default: "https://registry.npmjs.org/"

       • Type: URL

       The base URL of the npm registry.

   otp
       • Default: null

       • Type: null or String

       This is a one-time password from a two-factor authenticator. It's needed when publishing or changing package permissions with npm access.

       If not set, and a registry response fails with a challenge for a one-time password, npm will prompt on the command line for one.

   See Also
       • npm help package spec

       • npm help publish

       • npm help registry

       • npm help owner

       • npm help adduser

                                                                                              September 2022                                                                              NPM-DEPRECATE(1)
