ORTE_FILEM(7)                      Open MPI                      ORTE_FILEM(7)

NAME
       ORTE_FILEM  -  Open RTE MCA File Management (FileM) Framework: Overview
       of Open RTE's FileM framework, and selected modules.  Open MPI 4.1.5

DESCRIPTION
       FileM is a utility framework used by OpenRTE for a variety of purposes,
       including  the transport of checkpoint files, preloading user binaries,
       and preloading of user files.

AVAILABLE COMPONENTS
       Open RTE currently ships with one FileM component: rsh.

       The following MCA parameters apply to all components:

       filem_base_verbose
           Set the verbosity level for all components. Default is 0, or silent
           except on error.

   rsh FileM Component
       The rsh component uses rcp or scp to do its file transfers. This compo‐
       nent requires the use of passwordless rsh or ssh between all nodes.

       The rsh component has the following MCA parameters:

       filem_rsh_priority
           The component's priority to use when selecting the most appropriate
           component for a run.

       filem_rsh_verbose
           Set the verbosity level for this component. Default is 0, or silent
           except on error.

       filem_rsh_rcp
           The program to use to copy files. Generally will be rcp or scp.

       filem_rsh_rsh
           The program used to remotely log into a given  machine  and  remove
           files.  Generally will be rsh or ssh.

   none FileM Component
       The  none component simply selects no FileM component. All of the FileM
       function calls return immediately with ORTE_SUCCESS.

       This component is the last component to be selected  by  default.  This
       means  that  if  another component is available, and the none component
       was not explicity requested then ORTE will attempt to activate  all  of
       the available components before falling back to this component.

SEE ALSO
         orte-checkpoint(1),    orte-restart(1),   opal-checkpoint(1),   opal-
       restart(1), orte_snapc(7), opal_crs(7)

4.1.5                            Feb 23, 2023                    ORTE_FILEM(7)
