ORTE_SNAPC(7)                      Open MPI                      ORTE_SNAPC(7)

NAME
       ORTE_SNAPC  -  Open  RTE  MCA  Snapshot Coordination (SnapC) Framework:
       Overview of Open RTE's SnapC framework, and selected modules.  Open MPI
       4.1.5

DESCRIPTION
       Open RTE can coordinate the generation of a global snapshot of a paral‐
       lel job from many distributed local snapshots. The components  in  this
       framework determine how to: Initiate the checkpoint of the parallel ap‐
       plication, gather together the many distributed  local  snapshots,  and
       provide  the  user  with a global snapshot handle reference that can be
       used to restart the parallel application.

GENERAL PROCESS REQUIREMENTS
       In order for a process to use the Open RTE SnapC components it must ad‐
       hear to a few programmatic requirements.

       First,  the  program  must  call ORTE_INIT early in its execution. This
       should only be called once, and it is not possible  to  checkpoint  the
       process without it first having called this function.

       The program must call ORTE_FINALIZE before termination.

       A user may initiate a checkpoint of a parallel application by using the
       orte-checkpoint(1) and orte-restart(1) commands.

AVAILABLE COMPONENTS
       Open RTE ships with one SnapC component: full.

       The following MCA parameters apply to all components:

       snapc_base_verbose
           Set the verbosity level for all components. Default is 0, or silent
           except on error.

   full SnapC Component
       The full component gathers together the local snapshots to the disk lo‐
       cal to the Head Node Process (HNP) before completing the checkpoint  of
       the process. This component does not currently support replicated HNPs,
       or timer based gathering of local snapshot data. This is a 3-tiered hi‐
       erarchy of coordinators.

       The full component has the following MCA parameters:

       snapc_full_priority
           The component's priority to use when selecting the most appropriate
           component for a run.

       snapc_full_verbose
           Set the verbosity level for this component. Default is 0, or silent
           except on error.

   none SnapC Component
       The  none component simply selects no SnapC component. All of the SnapC
       function calls return immediately with ORTE_SUCCESS.

       This component is the last component to be selected  by  default.  This
       means  that  if  another component is available, and the none component
       was not explicity requested then ORTE will attempt to activate  all  of
       the available components before falling back to this component.

SEE ALSO
         orte-checkpoint(1),    orte-restart(1),   opal-checkpoint(1),   opal-
       restart(1), orte_filem(7), opal_crs(7)

4.1.5                            Feb 23, 2023                    ORTE_SNAPC(7)
