PACREPAIRFILE(1)                 pacrepairfile                PACREPAIRFILE(1)

NAME
       pacrepairfile - reset properties on alpm-managed files

SYNOPSIS
        pacrepairfile [options] (--gid|--mode|--mtime|--uid)... <file>...
        pacrepairfile (--help|--version)

DESCRIPTION
       Resets file properties for alpm-managed files based on MTREE data.

       If stdin is not connected to a terminal, files will be read from stdin.

OPTIONS
       --config=path
           Set an alternate configuration file path.

       --dbpath=path
           Set an alternate database path.

       --root=path
           Set an alternate installation root.

       --sysroot=path
           Set an alternate system root.  See pacutils-sysroot(7).

       --quiet
           Do not display progress information.

       --package=pkgname
           Search pkgname for file properties.  May be specified multiple
           times.  If --package is not specified, all installed packages will
           be searched.

       --help
           Display usage information and exit.

       --version
           Display version information and exit.

   Fields
       --gid
           Reset file owner group id.

       --mode
           Reset file permissions.

       --mtime
           Reset file modification time.

       --uid
           Reset file owner user id.

CAVEATS
       pacrepairfile determines whether or not to read files from stdin based
       on a naive check using isatty(3).  If pacrepairfile is called in an
       environment, such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe,
       where stdin is not connected to a terminal but does not contain files
       to reset, pacrepairfile should be called with stdin closed.  For POSIX-
       compatible shells, this can be done with "<&-".

       In order for pacrepairfile to reset a file's properties, the package
       which owns the file must have MTREE data.

pacutils                          2021-08-14                  PACREPAIRFILE(1)
