PACREPAIRDB(1)                    pacrepairdb                   PACREPAIRDB(1)

NAME
       pacrepairdb - fix corrupted database entries

SYNOPSIS
        pacrepairdb [options] <package>...
        pacrepairdb (--help|--version)

DESCRIPTION
       Attempt to repair broken package entries in libalpm's database.  Any
       missing essential files will be created and the packages will be
       reinstalled from the cache.

       If stdin is not connected to a terminal, package names will be read
       from stdin.

OPTIONS
       --cachedir=path
           Set an alternate cache directory path.

       --config=path
           Set an alternate configuration file path.

       --dbonly
           Make the changes to the database without actually extracting or
           removing any packages.

       --dbpath=path
           Set an alternate database path.

       --debug
           Display additional debugging information.

       --hookdir
           Add additional user hook directories.

       --logfile=path
           Set an alternate log file path.

       --no-confirm
           Assume default responses to all prompts.

       --no-scriptlet
           Do not run package install scripts.

       --no-hooks
           Do not run transaction hooks.

       --no-timeout
           Disable low-speed timeouts for downloads.

       --print-only
           Display the packages to be repaired and the cache packages to be
           used and exit.

       --root=path
           Set an alternate installation root.

       --sysroot=path
           Set an alternate system root.  See pacutils-sysroot(7).

       --verbose
           Display additional progress information.

       --help
           Display usage information and exit.

       --version
           Display version information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       Find and reinstall broken packages:

        paccheck --list-broken --files --file-properties --db-files --require-mtree | pacrepairdb

CAVEATS
       pacrepairdb expects all of the packages being repaired to be cached.
       Cached packages that match the name and version of an installed package
       are assumed to be the same package.  No attempt is made to validate
       cached packages.  If a cache contains a package that does not match the
       installed package, but nonetheless has the same name and version,
       pacrepairdb will blindly install it, worsening any database problems.

       pacrepairdb does not check for leftover orphaned files.  It is the
       user's responsibility locate and handle orphaned files.

       pacrepairdb determines whether or not to read package names from stdin
       based on a naive check using isatty(3).  If pacrepairdb is called in an
       environment, such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe,
       where stdin is not connected to a terminal but does not contain package
       names to repair, pacrepairdb should be called with stdin closed.  For
       POSIX-compatible shells, this can be done with "<&-".

pacutils                          2021-08-14                    PACREPAIRDB(1)
