Pod::Html::Util(3perl) Perl Programmers Reference Guide Pod::Html::Util(3perl)

NAME
       Pod::Html::Util - helper functions for Pod-Html

SUBROUTINES
       Note: While these functions are importable on request from
       Pod::Html::Util, they are specifically intended for use within (a) the
       Pod-Html distribution (modules and test programs) shipped as part of
       the Perl 5 core and (b) other parts of the core such as the installhtml
       program.  These functions may be modified or relocated within the core
       distribution -- or removed entirely therefrom -- as the core's needs
       evolve.  Hence, you should not rely on these functions in situations
       other than those just described.

   "process_command_line()"
       Process command-line switches (options).  Returns a reference to a
       hash.  Will provide usage message if "--help" switch is present or if
       parameters are invalid.

       Calling this subroutine may modify @ARGV.

   "usage()"
       Display customary Pod::Html usage information on STDERR.

   "unixify()"
       Ensure that Pod::Html's internals and tests handle paths consistently
       across Unix, Windows and VMS.

   "relativize_url()"
       Convert an absolute URL to one relative to a base URL.  Assumes both
       end in a filename.

   "html_escape()"
       Make text safe for HTML.

   "htmlify()"
           htmlify($heading);

       Converts a pod section specification to a suitable section
       specification for HTML. Note that we keep spaces and special characters
       except "", ?" (Netscape problem) and the hyphen (writer's problem...).

   "anchorify()"
           anchorify(@heading);

       Similar to "htmlify()", but turns non-alphanumerics into underscores.
       Note that "anchorify()" is not exported by default.

   "trim_leading_whitespace()"
       Remove any level of indentation (spaces or tabs) from each code block
       consistently.  Adapted from:
       https://metacpan.org/source/HAARG/MetaCPAN-Pod-XHTML-0.002001/lib/Pod/Simple/Role/StripVerbatimIndent.pm

perl v5.36.0                      2022-12-12            Pod::Html::Util(3perl)
