POWEROFF(8)                        poweroff                        POWEROFF(8)

NAME
       poweroff, reboot, halt - Power off, reboot, or halt the machine

SYNOPSIS
       poweroff [OPTIONS...]

       reboot [OPTIONS...]

       halt [OPTIONS...]

DESCRIPTION
       poweroff, reboot, and halt may be used to power off, reboot, or halt
       the machine. All three commands take the same options.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       --halt
           Halt the machine, regardless of which one of the three commands is
           invoked.

       -p, --poweroff
           Power off the machine, when either halt or poweroff is invoked.
           This option is ignored when reboot is invoked.

       --reboot
           Reboot the machine, regardless of which one of the three commands
           is invoked.

       -f, --force
           Force immediate power-off, halt, or reboot. If specified, the
           command does not contact the init system. In most cases,
           filesystems are not properly unmounted before shutdown. For
           example, the command reboot -f is mostly equivalent to systemctl
           reboot -ff, instead of systemctl reboot -f.

       -w, --wtmp-only
           Only write wtmp shutdown entry, do not actually power off, reboot,
           or halt.

       -d, --no-wtmp
           Do not write wtmp shutdown entry.

       -n, --no-sync
           Don't sync hard disks/storage media before power-off, reboot, or
           halt.

       --no-wall
           Do not send wall message before power-off, reboot, or halt.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

NOTES
       These commands are implemented in a way that preserves basic
       compatibility with the original SysV commands.  systemctl(1) verbs
       poweroff, reboot, halt provide the same functionality with some
       additional features.

       Note that on many SysV systems halt used to be synonymous to poweroff,
       i.e. both commands would equally result in powering the machine off.
       systemd is more accurate here, and halt results in halting the machine
       only (leaving power on), and poweroff is required to actually power it
       off.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), systemctl(1), shutdown(8), wall(1)

systemd 253                                                        POWEROFF(8)
