QALTER(1P)                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                QALTER(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qalter — alter batch job

SYNOPSIS
       qalter [-a date_time] [-A account_string] [-c interval] [-e path_name]
           [-h hold_list] [-j join_list] [-k keep_list] [-l resource_list]
           [-m mail_options] [-M mail_list] [-N name] [-o path_name]
           [-p priority] [-r y|n] [-S path_name_list] [-u user_list]
           job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       The attributes of a batch job are altered by a  request  to  the  batch
       server  that manages the batch job. The qalter utility is a user-acces‐
       sible batch client that requests the alteration of  the  attributes  of
       one or more batch jobs.

       The  qalter utility shall alter the attributes of those batch jobs, and
       only those batch jobs, for which a batch job_identifier is presented to
       the utility.

       The  qalter utility shall alter the attributes of batch jobs in the or‐
       der in which the batch job_identifiers are presented to the utility.

       If the qalter utility fails to process a batch job_identifier  success‐
       fully,  the  utility  shall  proceed  to  process  the  remaining batch
       job_identifiers, if any.

       For each batch job_identifier for which the  qalter  utility  succeeds,
       each  attribute  of  the identified batch job shall be altered as indi‐
       cated by all the options presented to the utility.

       For each identified batch job for which the qalter utility  fails,  the
       utility shall not alter any attribute of the batch job.

       For each batch job that the qalter utility processes, the utility shall
       not modify any attribute other than those required by the  options  and
       option-arguments presented to the utility.

       The  qalter  utility shall alter batch jobs by sending a Modify Job Re‐
       quest to the batch server that manages each batch job. At the time  the
       qalter  utility exits, it shall have modified the batch job correspond‐
       ing to each successfully processed batch job_identifier.  An attempt to
       alter the attributes of a batch job in the RUNNING state is implementa‐
       tion-defined.

OPTIONS
       The qalter utility shall conform to  the  Base  Definitions  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       -a date_time
                 Redefine the time at which the batch job becomes eligible for
                 execution.

                 The date_time argument shall be in the same form  and  repre‐
                 sent the same time as for the touch utility. The time so rep‐
                 resented shall be set into the  Execution_Time  attribute  of
                 the batch job. If the time specified is earlier than the cur‐
                 rent time, the -a option shall have no effect.

       -A account_string
                 Redefine the account to which the resource consumption of the
                 batch job should be charged.

                 The  syntax of the account_string option-argument is unspeci‐
                 fied.

                 The qalter utility shall set the  Account_Name  attribute  of
                 the batch job to the value of the account_string option-argu‐
                 ment.

       -c interval
                 Redefine whether the batch job should be checkpointed, and if
                 so, how often.

                 The  qalter utility shall accept a value for the interval op‐
                 tion-argument that is one of the following:

                 n         No checkpointing is to be performed  on  the  batch
                           job (NO_CHECKPOINT).

                 s         Checkpointing  is  to  be  performed  only when the
                           batch server is shut down (CHECKPOINT_AT_SHUTDOWN).

                 c         Automatic periodic checkpointing is to be performed
                           at  the Minimum_Cpu_Interval attribute of the batch
                           queue,   in   units   of   CPU   minutes    (CHECK‐
                           POINT_AT_MIN_CPU_INTERVAL).

                 c=minutes Automatic periodic checkpointing is to be performed
                           every minutes of CPU time, or every Minimum_Cpu_In‐
                           terval  minutes,  whichever is greater. The minutes
                           argument shall conform to the syntax  for  unsigned
                           integers and shall be greater than zero.

                 An  implementation may define other checkpoint intervals. The
                 conformance document for an implementation shall describe any
                 alternative  checkpoint  intervals,  how  they are specified,
                 their internal behavior, and how they affect the behavior  of
                 the utility.

                 The  qalter utility shall set the Checkpoint attribute of the
                 batch job to the value of the interval option-argument.

       -e path_name
                 Redefine the path to be used for the standard error stream of
                 the batch job.

                 The  qalter  utility shall accept a path_name option-argument
                 that conforms to the syntax of the path_name element  defined
                 in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, which can be
                 preceded by a host name element of the form hostname:.

                 If the  path_name  option-argument  constitutes  an  absolute
                 pathname,  the qalter utility shall set the Error_Path attri‐
                 bute of the batch job to the value of the  path_name  option-
                 argument, including the host name element, if present.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative path‐
                 name and no host name element is specified, the qalter  util‐
                 ity  shall  set  the Error_Path attribute of the batch job to
                 the value of the absolute pathname derived by  expanding  the
                 path_name  option-argument  relative to the current directory
                 of the process that executes the qalter utility.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative path‐
                 name and a host name element is specified, the qalter utility
                 shall set the Error_Path attribute of the batch  job  to  the
                 value of the option-argument without expansion.

                 If the path_name option-argument does not include a host name
                 element, the qalter utility shall prefix the pathname in  the
                 Error_Path  attribute  with  hostname:, where hostname is the
                 name of the host upon which the qalter utility is being  exe‐
                 cuted.

       -h hold_list
                 Redefine  the  types  of holds, if any, on the batch job. The
                 qalter -h option shall accept a value for the  hold_list  op‐
                 tion-argument  that is a string of alphanumeric characters in
                 the portable character set.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a value for the hold_list op‐
                 tion-argument  that is a string of one or more of the charac‐
                 ters 'u', 's', or 'o', or the single character 'n'.  For each
                 unique character in the hold_list option-argument, the qalter
                 utility shall add a value to the Hold_Types attribute of  the
                 batch  job  as  follows,  each  representing a different hold
                 type:

                 u     USER

                 s     SYSTEM

                 o     OPERATOR

                 If any of these characters are duplicated  in  the  hold_list
                 option-argument, the duplicates shall be ignored. An existing
                 Hold_Types attribute can be cleared by the hold type:

                 n     NO_HOLD

                 The qalter utility shall consider it an  error  if  any  hold
                 type other than 'n' is combined with hold type 'n'.  Strictly
                 conforming applications shall not repeat any of  the  charac‐
                 ters  'u', 's', 'o', or 'n' within the hold_list option-argu‐
                 ment. The qalter utility shall permit the repetition of char‐
                 acters,  but  shall  not assign additional meaning to the re‐
                 peated characters. An implementation may  define  other  hold
                 types.  The  conformance document for an implementation shall
                 describe any additional hold types, how they  are  specified,
                 their  internal behavior, and how they affect the behavior of
                 the utility.

       -j join_list
                 Redefine which streams of the batch job are to be merged. The
                 qalter  -j  option shall accept a value for the join_list op‐
                 tion-argument that is a string of alphanumeric characters  in
                 the portable character set.

                 The  qalter  utility shall accept a join_list option-argument
                 that consists of one or more of the characters 'e'  and  'o',
                 or the single character 'n'.

                 All  of the other batch job output streams specified shall be
                 merged into the output stream represented  by  the  character
                 listed first in the join_list option-argument.

                 For  each  unique character in the join_list option-argument,
                 the qalter utility shall add a value to the Join_Path  attri‐
                 bute of the batch job as follows, each representing a differ‐
                 ent batch job stream to join:

                 e     The standard error of the batch job (JOIN_STD_ERROR).

                 o     The standard output of the batch job (JOIN_STD_OUTPUT).

                 An existing Join_Path attribute can be cleared  by  the  join
                 type:

                 n     NO_JOIN

                 If  'n'  is  specified,  then no files are joined. The qalter
                 utility shall consider it an error if  any  join  type  other
                 than 'n' is combined with join type 'n'.

                 Strictly  conforming applications shall not repeat any of the
                 characters 'e', 'o', or 'n' within the join_list option-argu‐
                 ment. The qalter utility shall permit the repetition of char‐
                 acters, but shall not assign additional meaning  to  the  re‐
                 peated characters.

                 An  implementation  may  define other join types. The confor‐
                 mance document for an implementation shall describe any addi‐
                 tional  batch  job streams, how they are specified, their in‐
                 ternal behavior, and how they  affect  the  behavior  of  the
                 utility.

       -k keep_list
                 Redefine  which output of the batch job to retain on the exe‐
                 cution host.

                 The qalter -k option shall accept a value for  the  keep_list
                 option-argument  that  is a string of alphanumeric characters
                 in the portable character set.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a  keep_list  option-argument
                 that  consists  of one or more of the characters 'e' and 'o',
                 or the single character 'n'.

                 For each unique character in the  keep_list  option-argument,
                 the qalter utility shall add a value to the Keep_Files attri‐
                 bute of the batch job as follows, each representing a differ‐
                 ent batch job stream to keep:

                 e     The standard error of the batch job (KEEP_STD_ERROR).

                 o     The standard output of the batch job (KEEP_STD_OUTPUT).

                 If  both  'e'  and 'o' are specified, then both files are re‐
                 tained. An existing Keep_Files attribute can  be  cleared  by
                 the keep type:

                 n     NO_KEEP

                 If  'n'  is specified, then no files are retained. The qalter
                 utility shall consider it an error if  any  keep  type  other
                 than 'n' is combined with keep type 'n'.

                 Strictly  conforming applications shall not repeat any of the
                 characters 'e', 'o', or 'n' within the keep_list option-argu‐
                 ment. The qalter utility shall permit the repetition of char‐
                 acters, but shall not assign additional meaning  to  the  re‐
                 peated  characters.  An  implementation may define other keep
                 types. The conformance document for an  implementation  shall
                 describe  any  additional keep types, how they are specified,
                 their internal behavior, and how they affect the behavior  of
                 the utility.

       -l resource_list
                 Redefine  the  resources  that are allowed or required by the
                 batch job.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a resource_list  option-argu‐
                 ment that conforms to the following syntax:

                     resource=value[,,resource=value,,...]

                 The  qalter  utility  shall set one entry in the value of the
                 Resource_List attribute of the batch job  for  each  resource
                 listed in the resource_list option-argument.

                 Because  the  list  of supported resource names might vary by
                 batch server, the qalter utility  shall  rely  on  the  batch
                 server  to validate the resource names and associated values.
                 See Section 3.3.3, Multiple Keyword-Value Pairs for  a  means
                 of removing keyword=value (and value@keyword) pairs and other
                 general rules for list-oriented batch job attributes.

       -m mail_options
                 Redefine the points in the execution  of  the  batch  job  at
                 which  the batch server is to send mail about a change in the
                 state of the batch job.

                 The qalter -m option shall accept a value  for  the  mail_op‐
                 tions  option-argument that is a string of alphanumeric char‐
                 acters in the portable character set.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a value for the  mail_options
                 option-argument  that is a string of one or more of the char‐
                 acters 'e', 'b', and 'a', or the single character  'n'.   For
                 each  unique  character  in the mail_options option-argument,
                 the qalter utility shall add a value to the Mail_Users attri‐
                 bute of the batch job as follows, each representing a differ‐
                 ent time during the life of a batch  job  at  which  to  send
                 mail:

                 e     MAIL_AT_EXIT

                 b     MAIL_AT_BEGINNING

                 a     MAIL_AT_ABORT

                 If any of these characters are duplicated in the mail_options
                 option-argument, the duplicates shall be ignored.

                 An existing Mail_Points attribute can be cleared by the  mail
                 type:

                 n     NO_MAIL

                 If  'n' is specified, then mail is not sent. The qalter util‐
                 ity shall consider it an error if any mail  type  other  than
                 'n'  is combined with mail type 'n'.  Strictly conforming ap‐
                 plications shall not repeat any of the characters  'e',  'b',
                 'a', or 'n' within the mail_options option-argument. The qal‐
                 ter utility shall permit the  repetition  of  characters  but
                 shall  not  assign additional meaning to the repeated charac‐
                 ters.

                 An implementation may define other mail  types.  The  confor‐
                 mance document for an implementation shall describe any addi‐
                 tional mail types, how they are specified, their internal be‐
                 havior, and how they affect the behavior of the utility.

       -M mail_list
                 Redefine the list of users to which the batch server that ex‐
                 ecutes the batch job is to send mail,  if  the  batch  server
                 sends mail about the batch job.

                 The  syntax  of the mail_list option-argument is unspecified.
                 If the implementation of the qalter utility uses a name  ser‐
                 vice  to  locate  users,  the utility shall accept the syntax
                 used by the name service.

                 If the implementation of the qalter utility does  not  use  a
                 name service to locate users, the implementation shall accept
                 the following syntax for user names:

                     mail_address[,,mail_address,,...]

                 The interpretation of mail_address is implementation-defined.

                 The qalter utility shall set the Mail_Users attribute of  the
                 batch job to the value of the mail_list option-argument.

       -N name   Redefine the name of the batch job.

                 The  qalter  -N  option shall accept a value for the name op‐
                 tion-argument that is a string of up to 15 alphanumeric char‐
                 acters  in the portable character set where the first charac‐
                 ter is alphabetic.

                 The syntax of the name option-argument is unspecified.

                 The qalter utility shall set the Job_Name  attribute  of  the
                 batch job to the value of the name option-argument.

       -o path_name
                 Redefine the path for the standard output of the batch job.

                 The  qalter  utility shall accept a path_name option-argument
                 that conforms to the syntax of the path_name element  defined
                 in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, which can be
                 preceded by a host name element of the form hostname:.

                 If the  path_name  option-argument  constitutes  an  absolute
                 pathname, the qalter utility shall set the Output_Path attri‐
                 bute of the batch job to the value of the  path_name  option-
                 argument.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative path‐
                 name and no host name element is specified, the qalter  util‐
                 ity  shall  set the Output_Path attribute of the batch job to
                 the absolute pathname derived by expanding the path_name  op‐
                 tion-argument  relative  to  the  current  directory  of  the
                 process that executes the qalter utility.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative path‐
                 name and a host name element is specified, the qalter utility
                 shall set the Output_Path attribute of the batch job  to  the
                 value  of the path_name option-argument without any expansion
                 of the pathname.

                 If the path_name option-argument does not include a host name
                 element,  the qalter utility shall prefix the pathname in the
                 Output_Path attribute with hostname:, where hostname  is  the
                 name  of the host upon which the qalter utility is being exe‐
                 cuted.

       -p priority
                 Redefine the priority of the batch job.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a value for the priority  op‐
                 tion-argument  that conforms to the syntax for signed decimal
                 integers, and which is not less than -1024  and  not  greater
                 than 1023.

                 The  qalter  utility  shall set the Priority attribute of the
                 batch job to the value of the priority option-argument.

       -r y|n    Redefine whether the batch job is rerunnable.

                 If the value of the option-argument is 'y', the qalter  util‐
                 ity  shall  set  the  Rerunable attribute of the batch job to
                 TRUE.

                 If the value of the option-argument is 'n', the qalter  util‐
                 ity  shall  set  the  Rerunable attribute of the batch job to
                 FALSE.

                 The qalter utility shall consider it an error if any  charac‐
                 ter  other  than  'y' or 'n' is specified in the option-argu‐
                 ment.

       -S path_name_list
                 Redefine the shell that interprets the script at the destina‐
                 tion system.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a path_name_list option-argu‐
                 ment that conforms to the following syntax:

                     pathname[@host][,pathname[@host],...]

                 The qalter utility shall accept only  one  pathname  that  is
                 missing  a  corresponding host name. The qalter utility shall
                 allow only one pathname per named host.

                 The qalter utility shall add a value to  the  Shell_Path_List
                 attribute   of   the   batch   job  for  each  entry  in  the
                 path_name_list option-argument. See Section  3.3.3,  Multiple
                 Keyword-Value  Pairs  for  a  means of removing keyword=value
                 (and value@keyword) pairs and other general rules  for  list-
                 oriented batch job attributes.

       -u user_list
                 Redefine the user name under which the batch job is to run at
                 the destination system.

                 The qalter utility shall accept a  user_list  option-argument
                 that conforms to the following syntax:

                     username[@host][,,username[@host],,...]

                 The  qalter  utility  shall accept only one user name that is
                 missing a corresponding host name. The qalter  utility  shall
                 accept only one user name per named host.

                 The  qalter utility shall add a value to the User_List attri‐
                 bute of the batch job for each entry in the user_list option-
                 argument. See Section 3.3.3, Multiple Keyword-Value Pairs for
                 a means of removing keyword=value (and  value@keyword)  pairs
                 and  other  general  rules  for  list-oriented  batch job at‐
                 tributes.

OPERANDS
       The qalter utility shall accept one or more operands  that  conform  to
       the  syntax  for  a  batch job_identifier (see Section 3.3.1, Batch Job
       Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of  qal‐
       ter:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables the precedence of internationalization  variables  used
                 to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

       TZ        Determine the timezone used to interpret  the  date-time  op‐
                 tion-argument. If TZ is unset or null, an unspecified default
                 timezone shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qalter utility  shall  not  be
       required to write a diagnostic message to standard error when the error
       reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identi‐
       fier  does  not  exist on the server. Whether or not the qalter utility
       attempts to locate the batch job on other batch servers is  implementa‐
       tion-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  qalter  utility  allows  users to change the attributes of a batch
       job.

       As a means of altering a queued job, the qalter utility is superior  to
       deleting  and requeuing the batch job insofar as an altered job retains
       its place in the queue with some traditional selection  algorithms.  In
       addition,  the  qalter  utility  is both shorter and simpler than a se‐
       quence of qdel and qsub utilities.

       The result of an attempt on the part of a user to alter a batch job  in
       a  RUNNING  state  is implementation-defined because a batch job in the
       RUNNING state will already have opened its output files  and  otherwise
       performed  any  actions  indicated by the options in effect at the time
       the batch job began execution.

       The options processed by the qalter utility are identical to  those  of
       the qsub utility, with a few exceptions: -V, -v, and -q.  The -V and -v
       are inappropriate for the qalter utility,  since  they  capture  poten‐
       tially  transient  environment information from the submitting process.
       The -q option would specify a new queue, which would largely negate the
       previously  stated  advantage  of  using qalter; furthermore, the qmove
       utility provides a superior means of moving jobs.

       Each of the following paragraphs provides the rationale  for  a  qalter
       option.

       Additional  rationale  concerning these options can be found in the ra‐
       tionale for the qsub utility.

       The -a option allows users to alter the date and time at which a  batch
       job becomes eligible to run.

       The  -A  option allows users to change the account that will be charged
       for the resources consumed by the batch job. Support for the -A  option
       is mandatory for conforming implementations of qalter, even though sup‐
       port of accounting is optional for servers. Whether or not  to  support
       accounting is left to the implementor of the server, but mandatory sup‐
       port of the -A option assures users of a consistent interface  and  al‐
       lows them to control accounting on servers that support accounting.

       The  -c  option  allows  users to alter the checkpointing interval of a
       batch  job.  A  checkpointing  system,  which   is   not   defined   by
       POSIX.1‐2008,  allows recovery of a batch job at the most recent check‐
       point in the event of a crash. Checkpointing is typically used for jobs
       that consume expensive computing time or must meet a critical schedule.
       Users should be allowed to make the tradeoff between  the  overhead  of
       checkpointing  and  the risk to the timely completion of the batch job;
       therefore, this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 provides the  checkpointing  in‐
       terval option. Support for checkpointing is optional for servers.

       The  -e option allows users to alter the name and location of the stan‐
       dard error stream written by a batch job.  However,  the  path  of  the
       standard  error stream is meaningless if the value of the Join_Path at‐
       tribute of the batch job is TRUE.

       The -h option allows users to set the hold type in the  Hold_Types  at‐
       tribute of a batch job. The qhold and qrls utilities add or remove hold
       types to the Hold_Types attribute, respectively. The -h option has been
       modified to allow for implementation-defined hold types.

       The  -j  option  allows users to alter the decision to join (merge) the
       standard error stream of the batch job with the standard output  stream
       of the batch job.

       The  -l  option allows users to change the resource limits imposed on a
       batch job.

       The -m option allows users to modify the list of points in the life  of
       a  batch  job at which the designated users will receive mail notifica‐
       tion.

       The -M option allows users to alter the list of users who will  receive
       notification about events in the life of a batch job.

       The -N option allows users to change the name of a batch job.

       The  -o  option  allows  users  to alter the name and path to which the
       standard output stream of the batch job will be written.

       The -P option allows users to modify the priority of a batch job.  Sup‐
       port for priority is optional for batch servers.

       The  -r option allows users to alter the rerunability status of a batch
       job.

       The -S option allows users to change the name and location of the shell
       image  that  will  be invoked to interpret the script of the batch job.
       This option has been modified to allow a list of shell name  and  loca‐
       tions associated with different hosts.

       The  -u  option  allows users to change the user identifier under which
       the batch job will execute.

       The job_identifier operand syntax is provided so that the user can dif‐
       ferentiate between the originating and destination (or executing) batch
       server. These may or may not be  the  same.  The  .server_name  portion
       identifies  the  originating  batch  server,  while the @server portion
       identifies the destination batch server.

       Historically, the qalter utility has been a component  of  the  Network
       Queuing System (NQS), the existing practice from which this utility has
       been derived.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qalter utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qdel, qhold, qmove, qrls,  qsub,
       touch

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                           QALTER(1P)
