QDEL(1P)                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                  QDEL(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qdel — delete batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qdel job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       A batch job is deleted by sending a request to the  batch  server  that
       manages  the  batch job. A batch job that has been deleted is no longer
       subject to management by batch services.

       The qdel utility is a user-accessible client of batch services that re‐
       quests the deletion of one or more batch jobs.

       The  qdel  utility  shall  request a batch server to delete those batch
       jobs for which a batch job_identifier is presented to the utility.

       The qdel utility shall delete batch jobs in the order  in  which  their
       batch job_identifiers are presented to the utility.

       If  the qdel utility fails to process any batch job_identifier success‐
       fully, the  utility  shall  proceed  to  process  the  remaining  batch
       job_identifiers, if any.

       The  qdel  utility  shall delete each batch job by sending a Delete Job
       Request to the batch server that manages the batch job.

       The qdel utility shall not exit until the batch  job  corresponding  to
       each successfully processed batch job_identifier has been deleted.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The  qdel utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the
       syntax for a batch job_identifier (see Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identi‐
       fier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qdel:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables the precedence of internationalization  variables  used
                 to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       An implementation of the qdel utility may write informative messages to
       standard output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In  addition to the default behavior, the qdel utility shall not be re‐
       quired to write a diagnostic message to standard error when  the  error
       reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identi‐
       fier does not exist on the server. Whether  or  not  the  qdel  utility
       waits  to  output the diagnostic message while attempting to locate the
       job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qdel utility allows users and administrators to delete jobs.

       The qdel utility provides functionality that is  not  otherwise  avail‐
       able.  For  example,  the kill utility of the operating system does not
       suffice. First, to use the kill utility, the user might have to log  in
       on  a remote node, because the kill utility does not operate across the
       network. Second, unlike qdel, kill  cannot  remove  jobs  from  queues.
       Lastly,  the  arguments  of the qdel utility are job identifiers rather
       than process identifiers, and so this utility can be passed the  output
       of the qselect utility, thus providing users with a means of deleting a
       list of jobs.

       Because a set of jobs can be selected using the  qselect  utility,  the
       qdel utility has not been complicated with options that provide for se‐
       lection of jobs. Instead, the batch jobs to be deleted  are  identified
       individually by their job identifiers.

       Historically,  the qdel utility has been a component of NQS, the exist‐
       ing practice on which it is based. However, the qdel utility defined in
       this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 does not provide an option for specifying a
       signal number to send to the batch job prior  to  the  killing  of  the
       process; that capability has been subsumed by the qsig utility.

       A  discussion was held about the delays of networking and the possibil‐
       ity that the batch server may never respond, due to a down router, down
       batch server, or other network mishap. The DESCRIPTION records this un‐
       der the words ``fails to process any job identifier''.   In  the  broad
       sense,  the  network problem is also an error, which causes the failure
       to process the batch job identifier.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qdel utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, kill, qselect, qsig

       The Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  8,  Environment
       Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                             QDEL(1P)
