QRLS(1P)                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                  QRLS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qrls — release batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qrls [-h hold_list] job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       A batch job might have one or more holds, which prevent the  batch  job
       from  executing. A batch job from which all the holds have been removed
       becomes eligible for execution and is said to  have  been  released.  A
       batch job hold is removed by sending a request to the batch server that
       manages the batch job. The qrls utility is a user-accessible client  of
       batch  services  that  requests holds be removed from one or more batch
       jobs.

       The qrls utility shall remove one or more holds from those  batch  jobs
       for which a batch job_identifier is presented to the utility.

       The  qrls  utility  shall  remove holds from batch jobs in the order in
       which their batch job_identifiers are presented to the utility.

       If the qrls utility fails to process a  batch  job_identifier  success‐
       fully,  the  utility  shall  proceed  to  process  the  remaining batch
       job_identifiers, if any.

       The qrls utility shall remove holds on each batch job by sending a  Re‐
       lease Job Request to the batch server that manages the batch job.

       The  qrls utility shall not exit until the holds have been removed from
       the batch  job  corresponding  to  each  successfully  processed  batch
       job_identifier.

OPTIONS
       The  qrls  utility  shall  conform  to  the  Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported by the implementation:

       -h hold_list
                 Define the types of holds to be removed from the batch job.

                 The qrls -h option shall accept a value for the hold_list op‐
                 tion-argument  that is a string of alphanumeric characters in
                 the portable character set (see the Base  Definitions  volume
                 of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The  qrls  utility shall accept a value for the hold_list op‐
                 tion-argument that is a string of one or more of the  charac‐
                 ters 'u', 's', or 'o', or the single character 'n'.

                 For  each  unique character in the hold_list option-argument,
                 the qrls utility shall add a value to the  Hold_Types  attri‐
                 bute of the batch job as follows, each representing a differ‐
                 ent hold type:

                 u     USER

                 s     SYSTEM

                 o     OPERATOR

                 If any of these characters are duplicated  in  the  hold_list
                 option-argument, the duplicates shall be ignored.

                 An  existing  Hold_Types attribute can be cleared by the fol‐
                 lowing hold type:

                 n     NO_HOLD

                 The qrls utility shall consider it an error if any hold  type
                 other than 'n' is combined with hold type 'n'.

                 Strictly  conforming applications shall not repeat any of the
                 characters 'u', 's', 'o', or 'n' within the hold_list option-
                 argument.  The  qrls  utility  shall permit the repetition of
                 characters, but shall not assign additional  meaning  to  the
                 repeated characters.

                 An  implementation  may  define other hold types. The confor‐
                 mance document for an implementation shall describe any addi‐
                 tional hold types, how they are specified, their internal be‐
                 havior, and how they affect the behavior of the utility.

                 If the -h option is not presented to the  qrls  utility,  the
                 implementation  shall  remove the USER hold in the Hold_Types
                 attribute.

OPERANDS
       The qrls utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to  the
       syntax for a batch job_identifier (see Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identi‐
       fier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qrls:

       LANG      Provide a default value for  the  internationalization  vari‐
                 ables  that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions vol‐
                 ume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization  Vari‐
                 ables  the  precedence of internationalization variables used
                 to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override  the  values  of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to  standard  er‐
                 ror.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In  addition to the default behavior, the qrls utility shall not be re‐
       quired to write a diagnostic message to standard error when  the  error
       reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identi‐
       fier does not exist on the server. Whether  or  not  the  qrls  utility
       waits  to  output the diagnostic message while attempting to locate the
       job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qrls utility allows users, operators, and administrators to  remove
       holds from jobs.

       The qrls utility does not support any job selection options or wildcard
       arguments. Users may acquire a list of jobs selected by attributes  us‐
       ing  the qselect utility. For example, a user could select all of their
       held jobs.

       The -h option allows the user to specify the type of hold that is to be
       removed. This option allows for USER, SYSTEM, OPERATOR, and implementa‐
       tion-defined hold types. The batch server that manages  the  batch  job
       will verify whether the user is authorized to remove the specified hold
       for the batch job. If more than one type of hold has been placed on the
       batch job, a user may wish to remove only some of them.

       Mail is not required on release because the administrator has the tools
       and libraries to build this option if required.

       The qrls utility is a new utility vis-a-vis existing practice;  it  has
       been  defined  in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 as the natural complement
       to the qhold utility.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qrls utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qhold, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Section  6.1,  Portable
       Character  Set, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility
       Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                             QRLS(1P)
