RGB2YCBCR(1)                        LibTIFF                       RGB2YCBCR(1)

NAME
       rgb2ycbcr - convert non-YCbCr TIFF images to a YCbCr TIFF image

SYNOPSIS
       rgb2ycbcr [ options ] src1.tif src2.tif … dst.tif

DESCRIPTION
       rgb2ycbcr  converts  RGB  color,  greyscale, or bi-level TIFF images to
       YCbCr images by transforming and sampling pixel data. If multiple files
       are  specified  on  the command line each source file is converted to a
       separate directory in the destination file.

       By default, chrominance samples are created by sampling 2 by  2  blocks
       of  luminance  values;  this can be changed with the -h and -v options.
       Output data are compressed with the PackBits compression scheme, by de‐
       fault;  an alternate scheme can be selected with the -c option.  By de‐
       fault, output data are compressed in strips with the number of rows  in
       each  strip  selected  so that the size of a strip is never more than 8
       kilobytes; the -r option can be used to explicitly set  the  number  of
       rows per strip.

OPTIONS
       -c compress
              Specify  a compression scheme to use when writing image data: -c
              none for no compression, -c packbits for the  PackBits  compres‐
              sion  algorithm  (the default), -c jpeg for the JPEG compression
              algorithm, -c zip for the deflate compression algorithm, and  -c
              lzw for Lempel-Ziv & Welch.

       -h size
              Set the horizontal sampling dimension to one of: 1, 2 (default),
              or 4.

       -r striprows
              Write data with a specified number of rows per strip; by default
              the  number  of rows/strip is selected so that each strip is ap‐
              proximately 8 kilobytes.

       -v size
              Set the vertical sampling dimension to one of: 1,  2  (default),
              or 4.

SEE ALSO
       tiffinfo (1), tiffcp (1), libtiff (3tiff)

AUTHOR
       LibTIFF contributors

COPYRIGHT
       1988-2022, LibTIFF contributors

4.5                              Dec 13, 2022                     RGB2YCBCR(1)
