SACT(1P)                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                  SACT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sact — print current SCCS file-editing activity (DEVELOPMENT)

SYNOPSIS
       sact file...

DESCRIPTION
       The sact utility shall inform the user of any  impending  deltas  to  a
       named  SCCS  file  by writing a list to standard output. This situation
       occurs when get -e has been executed previously  without  a  subsequent
       execution of delta, unget, or sccs unedit.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A  pathname  of an existing SCCS file or a directory. If file
                 is a directory, the sact utility shall behave as though  each
                 file  in the directory were specified as a named file, except
                 that non-SCCS files (last component of the pathname does  not
                 begin  with  s.)   and unreadable files shall be silently ig‐
                 nored.

                 If exactly one file operand appears, and it is '-', the stan‐
                 dard  input  shall  be  read; each line of the standard input
                 shall be taken to be the name of an  SCCS  file  to  be  pro‐
                 cessed. Non-SCCS files and unreadable files shall be silently
                 ignored.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be a text file used only when the file operand
       is  specified  as '-'.  Each line of the text file shall be interpreted
       as an SCCS pathname.

INPUT FILES
       Any SCCS files interrogated are files of an unspecified format.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of sact:

       LANG      Provide a default value for  the  internationalization  vari‐
                 ables  that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions vol‐
                 ume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization  Vari‐
                 ables  for  the  precedence of internationalization variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override  the  values  of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed  to  multi-byte  characters  in  arguments  and input
                 files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The output for each named file shall consist of a line in the following
       format:

           "%s %s %s %s %s\n", <SID>, <new SID>, <login>, <date>, <time>

       <SID>     Specifies the SID of a delta that  currently  exists  in  the
                 SCCS file to which changes are made to make the new delta.

       <new SID> Specifies the SID for the new delta to be created.

       <login>   Contains the login name of the user who makes the delta (that
                 is, who executed a get for editing).

       <date>    Contains the date that get -e was  executed,  in  the  format
                 used by the prs :D: data keyword.

       <time>    Contains  the  time  that  get -e was executed, in the format
                 used by the prs :T: data keyword.

       If there is more than one named file or if a directory or standard  in‐
       put is named, each pathname shall be written before each of the preced‐
       ing lines:

           "\n%s:\n", <pathname>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for optional informative messages
       concerning SCCS files with no impending deltas, and for diagnostic mes‐
       sages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       delta, get, sccs, unget

       The Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  8,  Environment
       Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                             SACT(1P)
