SETSOCKOPT(3P)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SETSOCKOPT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setsockopt — set the socket options

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int setsockopt(int socket, int level, int option_name,
           const void *option_value, socklen_t option_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The setsockopt() function shall set the option  specified  by  the  op‐
       tion_name  argument, at the protocol level specified by the level argu‐
       ment, to the value pointed to by  the  option_value  argument  for  the
       socket  associated with the file descriptor specified by the socket ar‐
       gument.

       The level argument specifies the protocol level at which the option re‐
       sides.  To  set options at the socket level, specify the level argument
       as SOL_SOCKET. To set options at other levels, supply  the  appropriate
       level  identifier for the protocol controlling the option. For example,
       to indicate that an option is interpreted by the TCP (Transport Control
       Protocol),  set  level  to IPPROTO_TCP as defined in the <netinet/in.h>
       header.

       The option_name argument specifies a single option to set.  It  can  be
       one of the socket-level options defined in <sys_socket.h> and described
       in Section 2.10.16, Use of Options.  If option_name is equal to SO_RCV‐
       TIMEO  or  SO_SNDTIMEO  and the implementation supports setting the op‐
       tion, it is unspecified whether the struct timeval pointed  to  by  op‐
       tion_value  is  stored as provided by this function or is rounded up to
       align with the resolution of the clock being used. If  setsockopt()  is
       called  with  option_name equal to SO_ACCEPTCONN, SO_ERROR, or SO_TYPE,
       the behavior is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, setsockopt() shall return 0. Otherwise,  -1
       shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The setsockopt() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EDOM   The  send and receive timeout values are too big to fit into the
              timeout fields in the socket structure.

       EINVAL The specified option is invalid at the specified socket level or
              the socket has been shut down.

       EISCONN
              The  socket  is already connected, and a specified option cannot
              be set while the socket is connected.

       ENOPROTOOPT
              The option is not supported by the protocol.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       The setsockopt() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM There was insufficient memory available  for  the  operation  to
              complete.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient  resources  are available in the system to complete
              the call.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The setsockopt() function provides  an  application  program  with  the
       means  to  control socket behavior. An application program can use set‐
       sockopt() to allocate buffer space, control timeouts, or permit  socket
       data broadcasts. The <sys/socket.h> header defines the socket-level op‐
       tions available to setsockopt().

       Options may exist at multiple protocol levels. The SO_ options are  al‐
       ways present at the uppermost socket level.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.10, Sockets, bind(), endprotoent(), getsockopt(), socket()

       The   Base   Definitions   volume   of   POSIX.1‐2017,  <netinet_in.h>,
       <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       SETSOCKOPT(3P)
getsockopt(2)                 System Calls Manual                getsockopt(2)

NAME
       getsockopt, setsockopt - get and set options on sockets

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      void optval[restrict *.optlen],
                      socklen_t *restrict optlen);
       int setsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      const void optval[.optlen],
                      socklen_t optlen);

DESCRIPTION
       getsockopt()  and  setsockopt()  manipulate  options for the socket re‐
       ferred to by the file descriptor sockfd.  Options may exist at multiple
       protocol levels; they are always present at the uppermost socket level.

       When manipulating socket options, the level at which the option resides
       and the name of the option must be specified.  To manipulate options at
       the sockets API level, level is specified as SOL_SOCKET.  To manipulate
       options at any other level the protocol number of the appropriate  pro‐
       tocol  controlling  the  option  is supplied.  For example, to indicate
       that an option is to be interpreted by the TCP protocol,  level  should
       be set to the protocol number of TCP; see getprotoent(3).

       The  arguments  optval  and optlen are used to access option values for
       setsockopt().  For getsockopt() they identify a  buffer  in  which  the
       value  for  the  requested  option(s) are to be returned.  For getsock‐
       opt(), optlen is a value-result argument, initially containing the size
       of  the buffer pointed to by optval, and modified on return to indicate
       the actual size of the value returned.  If no option  value  is  to  be
       supplied or returned, optval may be NULL.

       Optname  and  any specified options are passed uninterpreted to the ap‐
       propriate  protocol  module  for  interpretation.   The  include   file
       <sys/socket.h> contains definitions for socket level options, described
       below.  Options at other protocol levels vary in format and name;  con‐
       sult the appropriate entries in section 4 of the manual.

       Most socket-level options utilize an int argument for optval.  For set‐
       sockopt(), the argument should be nonzero to enable a  boolean  option,
       or zero if the option is to be disabled.

       For a description of the available socket options see socket(7) and the
       appropriate protocol man pages.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned for the standard options.  On error, -1 is
       returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

       Netfilter  allows  the  programmer to define custom socket options with
       associated handlers; for such options, the return value on  success  is
       the value returned by the handler.

ERRORS
       EBADF  The argument sockfd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EFAULT The  address  pointed to by optval is not in a valid part of the
              process address space.  For getsockopt(), this error may also be
              returned if optlen is not in a valid part of the process address
              space.

       EINVAL optlen invalid in setsockopt().  In some cases  this  error  can
              also  occur  for  an  invalid  value  in  optval  (e.g., for the
              IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP option described in ip(7)).

       ENOPROTOOPT
              The option is unknown at the level indicated.

       ENOTSOCK
              The file descriptor sockfd does not refer to a socket.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, SVr4, 4.4BSD (first appeared in 4.2BSD).

BUGS
       Several of the socket options should be handled at lower levels of  the
       system.

SEE ALSO
       ioctl(2),  socket(2),  getprotoent(3),  protocols(5), ip(7), packet(7),
       socket(7), tcp(7), udp(7), unix(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-04-03                     getsockopt(2)
