SHUTDOWN(8)                        shutdown                        SHUTDOWN(8)

NAME
       shutdown - Halt, power off or reboot the machine

SYNOPSIS
       shutdown [OPTIONS...] [TIME] [WALL...]

DESCRIPTION
       shutdown may be used to halt, power off, or reboot the machine.

       The first argument may be a time string (which is usually "now").
       Optionally, this may be followed by a wall message to be sent to all
       logged-in users before going down.

       The time string may either be in the format "hh:mm" for hour/minutes
       specifying the time to execute the shutdown at, specified in 24h clock
       format. Alternatively it may be in the syntax "+m" referring to the
       specified number of minutes m from now.  "now" is an alias for "+0",
       i.e. for triggering an immediate shutdown. If no time argument is
       specified, "+1" is implied.

       Note that to specify a wall message you must specify a time argument,
       too.

       If the time argument is used, 5 minutes before the system goes down the
       /run/nologin file is created to ensure that further logins shall not be
       allowed.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       -H, --halt
           Halt the machine.

       -P, --poweroff
           Power the machine off (the default).

       -r, --reboot
           Reboot the machine.

       -h
           The same as --poweroff, but does not override the action to take if
           it is "halt". E.g.  shutdown --reboot -h means "poweroff", but
           shutdown --halt -h means "halt".

       -k
           Do not halt, power off, or reboot, but just write the wall message.

       --no-wall
           Do not send wall message before halt, power off, or reboot.

       -c
           Cancel a pending shutdown. This may be used to cancel the effect of
           an invocation of shutdown with a time argument that is not "+0" or
           "now".

       --show
           Show a pending shutdown action and time if there is any.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

COMPATIBILITY
       The
        shutdown command in previous init systems (including sysvinit)
       defaulted to single-user mode instead of powering off the machine. To
       change into single-user mode, use systemctl rescue instead.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), systemctl(1), halt(8), wall(1)

systemd 253                                                        SHUTDOWN(8)
SHUTDOWN(3P)               POSIX Programmer's Manual              SHUTDOWN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       shutdown — shut down socket send and receive operations

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int shutdown(int socket, int how);

DESCRIPTION
       The shutdown() function shall cause all or part of a  full-duplex  con‐
       nection  on the socket associated with the file descriptor socket to be
       shut down.

       The shutdown() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the file descriptor of the socket.

       how         Specifies the type of shutdown. The values are as follows:

                   SHUT_RD     Disables further receive operations.

                   SHUT_WR     Disables further send operations.

                   SHUT_RDWR   Disables further send and receive operations.

       The shutdown() function disables subsequent send and/or receive  opera‐
       tions on a socket, depending on the value of the how argument.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  shutdown() shall return 0; otherwise, -1
       shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The shutdown() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The how argument is invalid.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       The shutdown() function may fail if:

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system  to  perform
              the operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsockopt(), pselect(), read(), recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), send(),
       sendto(), setsockopt(), socket(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                         SHUTDOWN(3P)
shutdown(2)                   System Calls Manual                  shutdown(2)

NAME
       shutdown - shut down part of a full-duplex connection

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int shutdown(int sockfd, int how);

DESCRIPTION
       The  shutdown()  call causes all or part of a full-duplex connection on
       the socket associated with sockfd to be shut down.  If how is  SHUT_RD,
       further  receptions  will  be  disallowed.   If how is SHUT_WR, further
       transmissions will be disallowed.  If how is SHUT_RDWR, further  recep‐
       tions and transmissions will be disallowed.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success,  zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is
       set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EBADF  sockfd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL An invalid value was specified in how (but see BUGS).

       ENOTCONN
              The specified socket is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The file descriptor sockfd does not refer to a socket.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, 4.4BSD (first appeared in 4.2BSD).

NOTES
       The constants SHUT_RD, SHUT_WR, SHUT_RDWR have the value 0, 1,  2,  re‐
       spectively, and are defined in <sys/socket.h> since glibc-2.1.91.

BUGS
       Checks  for  the  validity of how are done in domain-specific code, and
       before Linux 3.7 not all domains performed these checks.  Most notably,
       UNIX  domain  sockets  simply ignored invalid values.  This problem was
       fixed for UNIX domain sockets in Linux 3.7.

SEE ALSO
       close(2), connect(2), socket(2), socket(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-03-30                       shutdown(2)
