SIGSUSPEND(3P)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SIGSUSPEND(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigsuspend — wait for a signal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigsuspend(const sigset_t *sigmask);

DESCRIPTION
       The sigsuspend() function shall replace the current signal mask of  the
       calling  thread  with the set of signals pointed to by sigmask and then
       suspend the thread until delivery of a signal whose action is either to
       execute  a  signal-catching  function or to terminate the process. This
       shall not cause any other signals that may have  been  pending  on  the
       process to become pending on the thread.

       If the action is to terminate the process then sigsuspend() shall never
       return. If the action is to execute a  signal-catching  function,  then
       sigsuspend()  shall  return after the signal-catching function returns,
       with the signal mask restored to the set that existed prior to the sig‐
       suspend() call.

       It is not possible to block signals that cannot be ignored. This is en‐
       forced by the system without causing an error to be indicated.

RETURN VALUE
       Since sigsuspend() suspends thread execution indefinitely, there is  no
       successful completion return value. If a return occurs, -1 shall be re‐
       turned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigsuspend() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  A signal is caught by the calling process  and  control  is  re‐
              turned from the signal-catching function.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Normally,  at the beginning of a critical code section, a specified set
       of signals is blocked using the sigprocmask() function. When the thread
       has completed the critical section and needs to wait for the previously
       blocked signal(s), it pauses by calling sigsuspend() with the mask that
       was returned by the sigprocmask() call.

RATIONALE
       Code  which  wants to avoid the ambiguity of the signal mask for thread
       cancellation handlers can install an  additional  cancellation  handler
       which resets the signal mask to the expected value.

           void cleanup(void *arg)
           {
               sigset_t *ss = (sigset_t *) arg;
               pthread_sigmask(SIG_SETMASK, ss, NULL);
           }

           int call_sigsuspend(const sigset_t *mask)
           {
               sigset_t oldmask;
               int result;
               pthread_sigmask(SIG_SETMASK, NULL, &oldmask);
               pthread_cleanup_push(cleanup, &oldmask);
               result = sigsuspend(sigmask);
               pthread_cleanup_pop(0);
               return result;
           }

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section   2.4,  Signal  Concepts,  pause(),  sigaction(),  sigaddset(),
       sigdelset(), sigemptyset(), sigfillset()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       SIGSUSPEND(3P)
sigsuspend(2)                 System Calls Manual                sigsuspend(2)

NAME
       sigsuspend, rt_sigsuspend - wait for a signal

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigsuspend(const sigset_t *mask);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       sigsuspend():
           _POSIX_C_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       sigsuspend() temporarily replaces the signal mask of the calling thread
       with the mask given by mask and then suspends the thread until delivery
       of  a signal whose action is to invoke a signal handler or to terminate
       a process.

       If the signal terminates the process, then sigsuspend()  does  not  re‐
       turn.   If  the  signal  is caught, then sigsuspend() returns after the
       signal handler returns, and the signal mask is restored  to  the  state
       before the call to sigsuspend().

       It  is  not possible to block SIGKILL or SIGSTOP; specifying these sig‐
       nals in mask, has no effect on the thread's signal mask.

RETURN VALUE
       sigsuspend() always returns -1, with errno set to  indicate  the  error
       (normally, EINTR).

ERRORS
       EFAULT mask  points  to memory which is not a valid part of the process
              address space.

       EINTR  The call was interrupted by a signal; signal(7).

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001.

   C library/kernel differences
       The original Linux system call was named sigsuspend().   However,  with
       the  addition of real-time signals in Linux 2.2, the fixed-size, 32-bit
       sigset_t type supported by that system call was no longer fit for  pur‐
       pose.   Consequently,  a new system call, rt_sigsuspend(), was added to
       support an enlarged sigset_t type.  The new system call takes a  second
       argument,  size_t  sigsetsize, which specifies the size in bytes of the
       signal set in mask.  This argument is currently required  to  have  the
       value  sizeof(sigset_t)  (or the error EINVAL results).  The glibc sig‐
       suspend() wrapper function hides these details from  us,  transparently
       calling rt_sigsuspend() when the kernel provides it.

NOTES
       Normally,  sigsuspend()  is  used in conjunction with sigprocmask(2) in
       order to prevent delivery of a signal during the execution of a  criti‐
       cal  code  section.   The caller first blocks the signals with sigproc‐
       mask(2).  When the critical code has completed, the caller  then  waits
       for  the  signals by calling sigsuspend() with the signal mask that was
       returned by sigprocmask(2) (in the oldset argument).

       See sigsetops(3) for details on manipulating signal sets.

SEE ALSO
       kill(2), pause(2), sigaction(2),  signal(2),  sigprocmask(2),  sigwait‐
       info(2), sigsetops(3), sigwait(3), signal(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-03-30                     sigsuspend(2)
