SOCKETPAIR(3P)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SOCKETPAIR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       socketpair — create a pair of connected sockets

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int socketpair(int domain, int type, int protocol,
           int socket_vector[2]);

DESCRIPTION
       The socketpair() function shall create an  unbound  pair  of  connected
       sockets  in a specified domain, of a specified type, under the protocol
       optionally specified by the protocol argument. The two sockets shall be
       identical. The file descriptors used in referencing the created sockets
       shall be returned in socket_vector[0] and socket_vector[1].   The  file
       descriptors  shall  be allocated as described in Section 2.14, File De‐
       scriptor Allocation.

       The socketpair() function takes the following arguments:

       domain      Specifies the communications domain in  which  the  sockets
                   are to be created.

       type        Specifies the type of sockets to be created.

       protocol    Specifies  a  particular protocol to be used with the sock‐
                   ets.  Specifying a protocol of 0 causes socketpair() to use
                   an  unspecified  default  protocol  appropriate for the re‐
                   quested socket type.

       socket_vector
                   Specifies a 2-integer array to hold the file descriptors of
                   the created socket pair.

       The  type  argument specifies the socket type, which determines the se‐
       mantics of communications over the socket. The following  socket  types
       are defined; implementations may specify additional socket types:

       SOCK_STREAM   Provides  sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connection-
                     mode byte streams, and may provide a transmission  mecha‐
                     nism for out-of-band data.

       SOCK_DGRAM    Provides  datagrams, which are connectionless-mode, unre‐
                     liable messages of fixed maximum length.

       SOCK_SEQPACKET
                     Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional,  connection-
                     mode transmission paths for records. A record can be sent
                     using one or more output operations  and  received  using
                     one  or  more  input  operations,  but a single operation
                     never transfers part of  more  than  one  record.  Record
                     boundaries  are  visible  to the receiver via the MSG_EOR
                     flag.

       If the protocol argument is non-zero, it shall specify a protocol  that
       is  supported  by the address family. If the protocol argument is zero,
       the default protocol for this address family and type  shall  be  used.
       The protocols supported by the system are implementation-defined.

       The  process may need to have appropriate privileges to use the socket‐
       pair() function or to create some sockets.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, this function shall return 0; otherwise, -1
       shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error, no file descrip‐
       tors shall be allocated, and the contents  of  socket_vector  shall  be
       left unmodified.

ERRORS
       The socketpair() function shall fail if:

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The  implementation  does not support the specified address fam‐
              ily.

       EMFILE All, or all but one, of the file descriptors  available  to  the
              process are currently open.

       ENFILE No more file descriptors are available for the system.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The specified protocol does not permit creation of socket pairs.

       EPROTONOSUPPORT
              The protocol is not supported by the address family, or the pro‐
              tocol is not supported by the implementation.

       EPROTOTYPE
              The socket type is not supported by the protocol.

       The socketpair() function may fail if:

       EACCES The process does not have appropriate privileges.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system  to  perform
              the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  documentation for specific address families specifies which proto‐
       cols each address family supports. The documentation for specific  pro‐
       tocols specifies which socket types each protocol supports.

       The  socketpair()  function  is used primarily with UNIX domain sockets
       and need not be supported for other domains.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, File Descriptor Allocation, socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       SOCKETPAIR(3P)
socketpair(2)                 System Calls Manual                socketpair(2)

NAME
       socketpair - create a pair of connected sockets

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int socketpair(int domain, int type, int protocol, int sv[2]);

DESCRIPTION
       The  socketpair()  call creates an unnamed pair of connected sockets in
       the specified domain, of the specified type, and using  the  optionally
       specified  protocol.   For  further  details  of  these  arguments, see
       socket(2).

       The file descriptors used in referencing the new sockets  are  returned
       in sv[0] and sv[1].  The two sockets are indistinguishable.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success,  zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, errno is set
       to indicate the error, and sv is left unchanged

       On Linux (and other systems), socketpair() does not modify sv on  fail‐
       ure.    A   requirement   standardizing  this  behavior  was  added  in
       POSIX.1-2008 TC2.

ERRORS
       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The specified address family is not supported on this machine.

       EFAULT The address sv does not specify a valid part of the process  ad‐
              dress space.

       EMFILE The per-process limit on the number of open file descriptors has
              been reached.

       ENFILE The system-wide limit on the total number of open files has been
              reached.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The  specified  protocol  does  not  support  creation of socket
              pairs.

       EPROTONOSUPPORT
              The specified protocol is not supported on this machine.

VERSIONS
       On Linux, the only supported domains for this call are AF_UNIX (or syn‐
       onymously, AF_LOCAL) and AF_TIPC (since Linux 4.12).

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       POSIX.1-2001, 4.4BSD.

       socketpair()  first  appeared  in  4.2BSD.   It  is  generally portable
       to/from non-BSD systems supporting clones of the BSD socket layer  (in‐
       cluding System V variants).

       Since   Linux  2.6.27,  socketpair()  supports  the  SOCK_NONBLOCK  and
       SOCK_CLOEXEC flags in the type argument, as described in socket(2).

SEE ALSO
       pipe(2), read(2), socket(2), write(2), socket(7), unix(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-03-30                     socketpair(2)
