strtoul(3)                 Library Functions Manual                 strtoul(3)

NAME
       strtoul, strtoull, strtouq - convert a string to an unsigned long inte‐
       ger

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       unsigned long strtoul(const char *restrict nptr,
                             char **restrict endptr, int base);
       unsigned long long strtoull(const char *restrict nptr,
                             char **restrict endptr, int base);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       strtoull():
           _ISOC99_SOURCE
               || /* glibc <= 2.19: */ _SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       The strtoul() function converts the initial part of the string in  nptr
       to  an  unsigned  long value according to the given base, which must be
       between 2 and 36 inclusive, or be the special value 0.

       The string may begin with an arbitrary amount of white space (as deter‐
       mined by isspace(3)) followed by a single optional '+' or '-' sign.  If
       base is zero or 16, the string may then include a "0x" prefix, and  the
       number  will  be read in base 16; otherwise, a zero base is taken as 10
       (decimal) unless the next character is '0', in which case it  is  taken
       as 8 (octal).

       The  remainder  of the string is converted to an unsigned long value in
       the obvious manner, stopping at the first  character  which  is  not  a
       valid  digit  in the given base.  (In bases above 10, the letter 'A' in
       either uppercase or lowercase represents 10, 'B' represents 11, and  so
       forth, with 'Z' representing 35.)

       If  endptr  is  not NULL, strtoul() stores the address of the first in‐
       valid character in *endptr.  If there were no digits at all,  strtoul()
       stores  the original value of nptr in *endptr (and returns 0).  In par‐
       ticular, if *nptr is not '\0' but **endptr is '\0' on return,  the  en‐
       tire string is valid.

       The  strtoull() function works just like the strtoul() function but re‐
       turns an unsigned long long value.

RETURN VALUE
       The strtoul() function returns either the result of the conversion  or,
       if  there  was  a leading minus sign, the negation of the result of the
       conversion represented as an unsigned value, unless the original  (non‐
       negated)  value  would  overflow; in the latter case, strtoul() returns
       ULONG_MAX and sets errno to ERANGE.  Precisely the same holds for  str‐
       toull() (with ULLONG_MAX instead of ULONG_MAX).

ERRORS
       EINVAL (not in C99) The given base contains an unsupported value.

       ERANGE The resulting value was out of range.

       The  implementation  may also set errno to EINVAL in case no conversion
       was performed (no digits seen, and 0 returned).

ATTRIBUTES
       For an  explanation  of  the  terms  used  in  this  section,  see  at‐
       tributes(7).

       ┌─────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────┬────────────────┐
       │Interface                            │ Attribute     │ Value          │
       ├─────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────┤
       │strtoul(), strtoull(), strtouq()     │ Thread safety │ MT-Safe locale │
       └─────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────┴────────────────┘

STANDARDS
       C11, POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       strtoul()
              POSIX.1-2001, C89, SVr4.

       strtoull()
              POSIX.1-2001, C99.

NOTES
       Since  strtoul() can legitimately return 0 or ULONG_MAX (ULLONG_MAX for
       strtoull()) on both success and failure, the calling program should set
       errno  to 0 before the call, and then determine if an error occurred by
       checking whether errno has a nonzero value after the call.

       In locales other than the "C" locale, other strings  may  be  accepted.
       (For example, the thousands separator of the current locale may be sup‐
       ported.)

       BSD also has

           u_quad_t strtouq(const char *nptr, char **endptr, int base);

       with completely analogous definition.  Depending on the wordsize of the
       current  architecture,  this may be equivalent to strtoull() or to str‐
       toul().

       Negative values are considered valid input and are  silently  converted
       to the equivalent unsigned long value.

EXAMPLES
       See  the example on the strtol(3) manual page; the use of the functions
       described in this manual page is similar.

SEE ALSO
       a64l(3), atof(3), atoi(3), atol(3), strtod(3), strtol(3), strtoumax(3)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-03-30                        strtoul(3)
STRTOUL(3P)                POSIX Programmer's Manual               STRTOUL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strtoul, strtoull — convert a string to an unsigned long

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       unsigned long strtoul(const char *restrict str,
           char **restrict endptr, int base);
       unsigned long long strtoull(const char *restrict str,
           char **restrict endptr, int base);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall convert the initial portion of the string pointed
       to by str to a type unsigned long and unsigned  long  long  representa‐
       tion,  respectively.  First, they decompose the input string into three
       parts:

        1. An initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space characters  (as
           specified by isspace())

        2. A  subject  sequence  interpreted as an integer represented in some
           radix determined by the value of base

        3. A final string of one or more  unrecognized  characters,  including
           the terminating NUL character of the input string

       Then  they shall attempt to convert the subject sequence to an unsigned
       integer, and return the result.

       If the value of base is 0, the expected form of the subject sequence is
       that  of  a  decimal constant, octal constant, or hexadecimal constant,
       any of which may be preceded by a '+' or '-' sign. A  decimal  constant
       begins  with  a  non-zero  digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal
       digits. An octal constant consists of the prefix  '0'  optionally  fol‐
       lowed  by  a sequence of the digits '0' to '7' only. A hexadecimal con‐
       stant consists of the prefix 0x or 0X followed by  a  sequence  of  the
       decimal  digits and letters 'a' (or 'A') to 'f' (or 'F') with values 10
       to 15 respectively.

       If the value of base is between 2 and 36, the expected form of the sub‐
       ject sequence is a sequence of letters and digits representing an inte‐
       ger with the radix specified by base, optionally preceded by a  '+'  or
       '-'  sign.  The letters from 'a' (or 'A') to 'z' (or 'Z') inclusive are
       ascribed the values 10 to 35; only letters whose  ascribed  values  are
       less  than  that of base are permitted. If the value of base is 16, the
       characters 0x or 0X may optionally precede the sequence of letters  and
       digits, following the sign if present.

       The  subject  sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of
       the input string, starting with  the  first  non-white-space  character
       that  is  of  the  expected form. The subject sequence shall contain no
       characters if the input string is empty or consists entirely of  white-
       space  characters,  or  if the first non-white-space character is other
       than a sign or a permissible letter or digit.

       If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value of base  is
       0,  the  sequence  of characters starting with the first digit shall be
       interpreted as an integer constant. If the subject sequence has the ex‐
       pected form and the value of base is between 2 and 36, it shall be used
       as the base for conversion, ascribing to each letter its value as given
       above.  If the subject sequence begins with a <hyphen-minus>, the value
       resulting from the conversion shall be negated. A pointer to the  final
       string  shall  be  stored  in the object pointed to by endptr, provided
       that endptr is not a null pointer.

       In other than the C or POSIX locale, additional locale-specific subject
       sequence forms may be accepted.

       If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no
       conversion shall be performed; the value of str shall be stored in  the
       object  pointed  to  by  endptr,  provided  that  endptr  is not a null
       pointer.

       These functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since 0, {ULONG_MAX}, and {ULLONG_MAX} are returned on  error  and  are
       also  valid returns on success, an application wishing to check for er‐
       ror situations should set errno to  0,  then  call  strtoul()  or  str‐
       toull(), then check errno.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, these functions shall return the converted
       value, if any. If no conversion could be performed, 0 shall be returned
       and errno may be set to [EINVAL].

       If  the  value  of base is not supported, 0 shall be returned and errno
       shall be set to [EINVAL].

       If the correct value is outside  the  range  of  representable  values,
       {ULONG_MAX}  or  {ULLONG_MAX}  shall  be  returned  and  errno  set  to
       [ERANGE].

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of base is not supported.

       ERANGE The value to be returned is not representable.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL No conversion could be performed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since the value of *endptr is unspecified if the value of base  is  not
       supported,  applications should either ensure that base has a supported
       value (0 or between 2 and 36) before the call, or check for an [EINVAL]
       error before examining *endptr.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fscanf(), isalpha(), strtod(), strtol()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                          STRTOUL(3P)
