symlink(2)                    System Calls Manual                   symlink(2)

NAME
       symlink, symlinkat - make a new name for a file

LIBRARY
       Standard C library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int symlink(const char *target, const char *linkpath);

       #include <fcntl.h>           /* Definition of AT_* constants */
       #include <unistd.h>

       int symlinkat(const char *target, int newdirfd, const char *linkpath);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       symlink():
           _XOPEN_SOURCE >= 500 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200112L
               || /* glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE

       symlinkat():
           Since glibc 2.10:
               _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
           Before glibc 2.10:
               _ATFILE_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       symlink()  creates  a  symbolic  link named linkpath which contains the
       string target.

       Symbolic links are interpreted at run time as if the  contents  of  the
       link  had  been substituted into the path being followed to find a file
       or directory.

       Symbolic links may contain ..  path components, which (if used  at  the
       start of the link) refer to the parent directories of that in which the
       link resides.

       A symbolic link (also known as a soft link) may point  to  an  existing
       file  or  to  a nonexistent one; the latter case is known as a dangling
       link.

       The permissions of a symbolic link are irrelevant; the ownership is ig‐
       nored  when following the link (except when the protected_symlinks fea‐
       ture is enabled, as explained in proc(5)), but is checked when  removal
       or  renaming  of  the  link is requested and the link is in a directory
       with the sticky bit (S_ISVTX) set.

       If linkpath exists, it will not be overwritten.

   symlinkat()
       The symlinkat() system call operates in exactly the same  way  as  sym‐
       link(), except for the differences described here.

       If  the  pathname given in linkpath is relative, then it is interpreted
       relative to the directory referred to by the file  descriptor  newdirfd
       (rather  than  relative to the current working directory of the calling
       process, as is done by symlink() for a relative pathname).

       If linkpath is relative and newdirfd is  the  special  value  AT_FDCWD,
       then  linkpath is interpreted relative to the current working directory
       of the calling process (like symlink()).

       If linkpath is absolute, then newdirfd is ignored.

       See openat(2) for an explanation of the need for symlinkat().

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and  errno  is
       set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EACCES Write  access to the directory containing linkpath is denied, or
              one of the directories in the path prefix of  linkpath  did  not
              allow search permission.  (See also path_resolution(7).)

       EBADF  (symlinkat())  linkpath  is  relative  but  newdirfd  is neither
              AT_FDCWD nor a valid file descriptor.

       EDQUOT The user's quota of resources on the  filesystem  has  been  ex‐
              hausted.   The resources could be inodes or disk blocks, depend‐
              ing on the filesystem implementation.

       EEXIST linkpath already exists.

       EFAULT target or linkpath points outside your accessible address space.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred.

       ELOOP  Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving linkpath.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              target or linkpath was too long.

       ENOENT A directory component in linkpath does not exist or  is  a  dan‐
              gling symbolic link, or target or linkpath is an empty string.

       ENOENT (symlinkat())  linkpath  is  a  relative  pathname  and newdirfd
              refers to a directory that has been deleted.

       ENOMEM Insufficient kernel memory was available.

       ENOSPC The device containing the file has no room for the new directory
              entry.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  used as a directory in linkpath is not, in fact, a
              directory.

       ENOTDIR
              (symlinkat()) linkpath is relative and newdirfd is  a  file  de‐
              scriptor referring to a file other than a directory.

       EPERM  The filesystem containing linkpath does not support the creation
              of symbolic links.

       EROFS  linkpath is on a read-only filesystem.

STANDARDS
       POSIX.1-2008.

HISTORY
       symlink()
              SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

       symlinkat()
              POSIX.1-2008.  Linux 2.6.16, glibc 2.4.

   glibc notes
       On older kernels where symlinkat() is unavailable,  the  glibc  wrapper
       function  falls back to the use of symlink().  When linkpath is a rela‐
       tive pathname, glibc constructs a pathname based on the  symbolic  link
       in /proc/self/fd that corresponds to the newdirfd argument.

NOTES
       No checking of target is done.

       Deleting  the  name referred to by a symbolic link will actually delete
       the file (unless it also has other hard links).  If  this  behavior  is
       not desired, use link(2).

SEE ALSO
       ln(1),  namei(1),  lchown(2),  link(2), lstat(2), open(2), readlink(2),
       rename(2), unlink(2), path_resolution(7), symlink(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04              2023-03-30                        symlink(2)
SYMLINK(3P)                POSIX Programmer's Manual               SYMLINK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       symlink, symlinkat — make a symbolic link

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int symlink(const char *path1, const char *path2);

       #include <fcntl.h>

       int symlinkat(const char *path1, int fd, const char *path2);

DESCRIPTION
       The symlink() function shall create a symbolic link called  path2  that
       contains  the string pointed to by path1 (path2 is the name of the sym‐
       bolic link created, path1 is  the  string  contained  in  the  symbolic
       link).

       The  string  pointed  to by path1 shall be treated only as a string and
       shall not be validated as a pathname.

       If the symlink() function fails for any reason other  than  [EIO],  any
       file named by path2 shall be unaffected.

       If  path2  names a symbolic link, symlink() shall fail and set errno to
       [EEXIST].

       The symbolic link's user ID shall be set to the process' effective user
       ID.  The  symbolic  link's group ID shall be set to the group ID of the
       parent directory or to the effective group ID of the process. Implemen‐
       tations  shall provide a way to initialize the symbolic link's group ID
       to the group ID of the parent directory. Implementations may, but  need
       not,  provide  an implementation-defined way to initialize the symbolic
       link's group ID to the effective group ID of the calling process.

       The values of the file mode bits for the created symbolic link are  un‐
       specified.  All interfaces specified by POSIX.1‐2008 shall behave as if
       the contents of symbolic links can always  be  read,  except  that  the
       value  of  the file mode bits returned in the st_mode field of the stat
       structure is unspecified.

       Upon successful completion, symlink() shall mark for  update  the  last
       data  access, last data modification, and last file status change time‐
       stamps of the symbolic link. Also, the last data modification and  last
       file  status  change  timestamps of the directory that contains the new
       entry shall be marked for update.

       The symlinkat() function shall be equivalent to the symlink()  function
       except  in the case where path2 specifies a relative path. In this case
       the symbolic link is created relative to the directory associated  with
       the file descriptor fd instead of the current working directory. If the
       access mode of the open file description associated with the  file  de‐
       scriptor  is  not  O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory
       searches are permitted using the current permissions of  the  directory
       underlying  the  file  descriptor.  If the access mode is O_SEARCH, the
       function shall not perform the check.

       If symlinkat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the  fd  parame‐
       ter, the current working directory shall be used and the behavior shall
       be identical to a call to symlink().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise,
       these functions shall return -1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Write  permission  is denied in the directory where the symbolic
              link is being created, or search permission is denied for a com‐
              ponent of the path prefix of path2.

       EEXIST The path2 argument names an existing file.

       EIO    An  I/O  error  occurs while reading from or writing to the file
              system.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of
              the path2 argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of the pathname specified by the path2
              argument is longer than {NAME_MAX} or the length  of  the  path1
              argument is longer than {SYMLINK_MAX}.

       ENOENT A  component of the path prefix of path2 does not name an exist‐
              ing file or path2 is an empty string.

       ENOENT or ENOTDIR
              The path2 argument contains at least one  non-<slash>  character
              and  ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters. If path2
              without the trailing <slash> characters would name  an  existing
              file, an [ENOENT] error shall not occur.

       ENOSPC The  directory  in  which the entry for the new symbolic link is
              being placed cannot be extended because no space is left on  the
              file  system  containing the directory, or the new symbolic link
              cannot be created because no space is left on  the  file  system
              which shall contain the link, or the file system is out of file-
              allocation resources.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix of path2 names an  existing  file
              that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EROFS  The new symbolic link would reside on a read-only file system.

       The symlinkat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES The  access mode of the open file description associated with fd
              is not O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory  underlying
              fd do not permit directory searches.

       EBADF  The  path2 argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd
              argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid  file  descriptor  open
              for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The  path2 argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file de‐
              scriptor associated with a non-directory file.

       These functions may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were  encountered  during
              resolution of the path2 argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of the path2 argument exceeds {PATH_MAX} or pathname
              resolution of a symbolic link in the path2 argument produced  an
              intermediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Like  a hard link, a symbolic link allows a file to have multiple logi‐
       cal names. The presence of a hard link guarantees the  existence  of  a
       file,  even  after  the original name has been removed. A symbolic link
       provides no such assurance; in fact, the file named by the path1  argu‐
       ment need not exist when the link is created. A symbolic link can cross
       file system boundaries.

       Normal permission checks are made on each  component  of  the  symbolic
       link pathname during its resolution.

RATIONALE
       The  purpose of the symlinkat() function is to create symbolic links in
       directories other than the current working directory  without  exposure
       to  race conditions. Any part of the path of a file could be changed in
       parallel to a call to symlink(), resulting in unspecified behavior.  By
       opening  a  file descriptor for the target directory and using the sym‐
       linkat() function it can be guaranteed that the created  symbolic  link
       is located relative to the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fdopendir(), fstatat(), lchown(), link(), open(), readlink(), rename(),
       unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fcntl.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                          SYMLINK(3P)
