TTY(1)                                                                                         User Commands                                                                                        TTY(1)

NAME
       tty - print the file name of the terminal connected to standard input

SYNOPSIS
       tty [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       Print the file name of the terminal connected to standard input.

       -s, --silent, --quiet
              print nothing, only return an exit status

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit

AUTHOR
       Written by David MacKenzie.

REPORTING BUGS
       GNU coreutils online help: <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/>
       Report any translation bugs to <https://translationproject.org/team/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       Full documentation <https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/tty>
       or available locally via: info '(coreutils) tty invocation'

GNU coreutils 9.2                                                                               April 2023                                                                                          TTY(1)
TTY(1P)                                                                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                                 TTY(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tty — return user's terminal name

SYNOPSIS
       tty

DESCRIPTION
       The tty utility shall write to the standard output the name of the terminal that is open as standard input. The name that is used shall be equivalent to the string that would be returned  by  the
       ttyname() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017.

OPTIONS
       The tty utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       While no input is read from standard input, standard input shall be examined to determine whether or not it is a terminal, and, if so, to determine the name of the terminal.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tty:

       LANG      Provide  a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for
                 the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If standard input is a terminal device, a pathname of the terminal as specified by the ttyname() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017 shall be written in the following
       format:

           "%s\n", <terminal name>

       Otherwise, a message shall be written indicating that standard input is not connected to a terminal. In the POSIX locale, the tty utility shall use the format:

           "not a tty\n"

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Standard input is a terminal.

        1    Standard input is not a terminal.

       >1    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This  utility  checks the status of the file open as standard input against that of an implementation-defined set of files. It is possible that no match can be found, or that the match found need
       not be the same file as that which was opened for standard input (although they are the same device).

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, isatty(), ttyname()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base  Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this ver‐
       sion and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online  at  http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report such errors, see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                            TTY(1P)
tty(4)                                                                                   Kernel Interfaces Manual                                                                                   tty(4)

NAME
       tty - controlling terminal

DESCRIPTION
       The file /dev/tty is a character file with major number 5 and minor number 0, usually with mode 0666 and ownership root:tty.  It is a synonym for the controlling terminal of a process, if any.

       In addition to the ioctl(2) requests supported by the device that tty refers to, the ioctl(2) request TIOCNOTTY is supported.

   TIOCNOTTY
       Detach the calling process from its controlling terminal.

       If the process is the session leader, then SIGHUP and SIGCONT signals are sent to the foreground process group and all processes in the current session lose their controlling tty.

       This ioctl(2) call works only on file descriptors connected to /dev/tty.  It is used by daemon processes when they are invoked by a user at a terminal.  The process attempts to open /dev/tty.  If
       the open succeeds, it detaches itself from the terminal by using TIOCNOTTY, while if the open fails, it is obviously not attached to a terminal and does not need to detach itself.

FILES
       /dev/tty

SEE ALSO
       chown(1), mknod(1), ioctl(2), ioctl_console(2), ioctl_tty(2), termios(3), ttyS(4), vcs(4), pty(7), agetty(8), mingetty(8)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                                                            2022-10-30                                                                                          tty(4)
