curs_addstr(3X)                                                                                                                                                                            curs_addstr(3X)

NAME
       addstr, addnstr, waddstr, waddnstr, mvaddstr, mvaddnstr, mvwaddstr, mvwaddnstr - add a string of characters to a curses window and advance cursor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <curses.h>

       int addstr(const char *str);
       int addnstr(const char *str, int n);
       int waddstr(WINDOW *win, const char *str);
       int waddnstr(WINDOW *win, const char *str, int n);

       int mvaddstr(int y, int x, const char *str);
       int mvaddnstr(int y, int x, const char *str, int n);
       int mvwaddstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, const char *str);
       int mvwaddnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, const char *str, int n);

DESCRIPTION
       These functions write the (null-terminated) character string str on the given window.  It is similar to calling waddch once for each byte in the string.

       The mv functions perform cursor movement once, before writing any characters.  Thereafter, the cursor is advanced as a side-effect of writing to the window.

       The four functions with n as the last argument write at most n bytes, or until a terminating null is reached.  If n is -1, then the entire string will be added.

RETURN VALUE
       All functions return the integer ERR upon failure and OK on success.

       X/Open does not define any error conditions.  This implementation returns an error

       •   if the window pointer is null or

       •   if the string pointer is null or

       •   if the corresponding calls to waddch return an error.

       Functions  with a “mv” prefix first perform a cursor movement using wmove, and return an error if the position is outside the window, or if the window pointer is null.  If an error is returned by
       the wmove, no characters are added to the window.

       If an error is returned by waddch (e.g., because the window is not large enough, or an illegal byte sequence was detected) only part of the string may be added.  Aside from that, there is a  spe‐
       cial case in waddch where an error may be returned after successfully writing a character to the lower-right corner of a window when scrollok is disabled.

NOTES
       All of these functions except waddnstr may be macros.

PORTABILITY
       These functions are described in the XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.

SEE ALSO
       curses(3X), curs_addch(3X).

                                                                                                                                                                                           curs_addstr(3X)
