WCSFTIME(3P)                                                                             POSIX Programmer's Manual                                                                            WCSFTIME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or
       the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsftime — convert date and time to a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcsftime(wchar_t *restrict wcs, size_t maxsize,
           const wchar_t *restrict format, const struct tm *restrict timeptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The wcsftime() function shall be equivalent to the strftime() function, except that:

        *  The argument wcs points to the initial element of an array of wide characters into which the generated output is to be placed.

        *  The argument maxsize indicates the maximum number of wide characters to be placed in the output array.

        *  The  argument  format is a wide-character string and the conversion specifications are replaced by corresponding sequences of wide characters.  It is unspecified whether an encoding error oc‐
           curs if the format string contains wchar_t values that do not correspond to members of the character set of the current locale.

        *  Field widths specify the number of wide characters instead of the number of bytes.

        *  The return value indicates the number of wide characters placed in the output array.

       If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       If the total number of resulting wide-character codes including the terminating null wide-character code is no more than maxsize, wcsftime() shall return the number of wide-character codes placed
       into the array pointed to by wcs, not including the terminating null wide-character code. Otherwise, zero is returned and the contents of the array are unspecified.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strftime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group
       Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy between this  ver‐
       sion  and  the  original  IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.open‐
       group.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to man page format. To report  such  errors,  see
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                                                                2017                                                                                       WCSFTIME(3P)
