XORGFOUNDATION(7)                                                                    Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                    XORGFOUNDATION(7)

NAME
       XOrgFoundation - X.Org Foundation information

SYNOPSIS
       Release 6.7 and later of X Version 11 is brought to you by the X.Org Foundation.

DESCRIPTION
       The  X.Org  Foundation  is  a member project of Software in the Public Interest (SPI), an independent, not-for-profit 501(c)(3) charity corporation.  It was formed in 2004 as the successor to the
       X.Org Group at The Open Group. The purpose of the X.Org Foundation is to foster the development, evolution, and maintenance of the X Window System, a comprehensive set of vendor-neutral,  system-
       architecture neutral, network-transparent windowing and user interface standards. Membership in the X.Org Foundation is free and open to anyone. The X.Org Foundation hosts public git repositories
       of the source code on freedesktop.org.

       The X Window System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded consortium to provide the technical and administrative  leader‐
       ship necessary to support further development of the X Window System.  In 1992, MIT and the membership decided it was in their best interests to move the consortium out of MIT and create an inde‐
       pendent, stand-alone organization.  All rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to X Consortium, Inc. on January 1, 1994. On December 31, 1996 the X Consortium, Inc. closed  its  doors
       and all rights to the X Window System were assigned to The Open Group (then known as the Open Software Foundation).

ADDRESSES
       The X.Org Foundation's web site is https://www.x.org/

ADDRESSES
       SPI's web site is https://spi-inc.org/

       The X.Org Foundation's public ftp site is ftp://ftp.x.org/

       The X.Org Foundation's public source repositories are at https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/xorg

X Version 11                                                                                  xorg-docs 1.7.2                                                                            XORGFOUNDATION(7)
